Official Journal of the European Union EN L series
2026/1848 23.7.2026

COUNCIL REGULATION (EU) 2026/1848

of 23 July 2026

amending Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine

THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 215 thereof,

Having regard to Council Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 of 23 July 2026 amending Decision 2014/512/CFSP concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (1),

Having regard to the joint proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the European Commission,

Whereas:

(1) On 31 July 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 (2).
(2) Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 gives effect to certain measures provided for in Council Decision 2014/512/CFSP (3).
(3) On 23 July 2026, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849, which amends Decision 2014/512/CFSP.
(4) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 amends derogations in order to ensure the continued provision of goods and services required to uphold internet infrastructure in Russia for the general public.
(5) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 adds 51 entities to Annex IV to Decision 2014/512/CFSP. Those entities form part of Russia’s military and industrial complex, or have commercial or other links with or otherwise support Russia’s military and industrial complex or its defence and security sector. Tighter export restrictions regarding dual-use goods and technology, as well as regarding goods and technology which might contribute to the technological enhancement of Russia’s defence and security sector, are imposed on those entities. Among the entities Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 adds to that Annex are entities in third countries other than Russia that indirectly contribute to Russia’s military and technological enhancement thereby enabling the circumvention of Union restrictive measures or frustrating their purpose, including Union restrictive measures on microelectronics, computer numerical controlled (CNC) machine tools and equipment for semiconductor processing.
(6) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 considers it appropriate to expand the list of items which might contribute to Russia’s military and technological enhancement or to the development of its defence and security sector, by listing items which have been used by Russia in its war of aggression against Ukraine and items which contribute to the development or production of its military systems, including: nickel powders, nickel metal and alloys of nickel used in corrosion-resistant coatings in jet engines; beryllium powders used in propellants and in high-performance alloys; self-adhesive films, tapes and strips used in the aerospace and defence sectors; aviation items specific to unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), such as ground support equipment, jamming/interception systems, launch systems and servomotors; and flight termination systems for UAVs or missiles.
(7) Additionally, Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 considers it appropriate to introduce further restrictions on imports of goods which generate significant revenues for Russia, thereby enabling the continuation of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, including restrictions on copper ores, nickel ores, lead ores, precious-metals ores, unwrought zinc, alkaline-earth metals, certain inorganic chemicals (zinc oxides and chromium oxides), tall oil, glassware and car parts.
(8) It is appropriate to enable national competent authorities to dispose safely of Russian oil cargos they seize and confiscate. To that end, Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces two derogations to enable relevant operations, such as import, transfer, storage, management and sale.
(9) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a possibility for the competent authorities to authorise, pursuant to strict conditions, importers to not provide evidence of the country of origin of the crude oil as regards the supply of petroleum products obtained in a third country to the outermost regions and overseas countries and territories associated with the Union, given the specific geographic characteristics of those regions, countries and territories and their supply constraints, to cater for cases where proof of origin is difficult to obtain.
(10) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 extends the duration of an exemption from the oil price cap which allows, in view of energy security concerns, the transport, by vessel, of crude oil originating in the Sakhalin-2 Project in Russia to Japan.
(11) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a suspension of the amendment of the crude oil price cap. Council Decision (CFSP) 2025/1495 (4) provided for a procedure to modify the price cap for Russian crude oil depending on the average market price of Russian crude oil. As indicated in Decision (CFSP) 2025/1495, that procedure is intended to ensure that the crude oil price cap is sufficiently low at all times to reduce Russia’s revenues from oil exports, taking into account previous price fluctuations. Given the recent exceptional disturbances in the markets for crude oil and petroleum products, and to ensure that the crude oil price cap remains effective in achieving its objectives, it is appropriate to suspend the amendment of that price cap. At the same time, it is appropriate to provide for an interim review of that suspension to ensure that the mechanism remains necessary and proportionate taking into consideration market developments. It should be possible for the Council to decide to amend the price cap after that interim review. In the absence of a decision by the Council, the applicable price cap will remain in place. From 15 July 2027, the application of the original procedure to amend the price cap will resume, with the publication on that date of a notice by the Commission with the new price cap and the amendment of Annex XXVIII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 in accordance with Article 3n(11) and Article 7a of that Regulation.
(12) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces an exemption from the prohibition to transfer and to provide technical assistance, brokering services or financing or financial assistance, related to the transfer to third countries of liquefied natural gas (LNG) which originates in or is exported from Russia. That exemption aims to mitigate adverse consequences for the energy supply of certain partner countries.
(13) Decision (CFSP) 2025/2032 (5) amended Decision 2014/512/CFSP in order to introduce a prohibition on the purchase, import or transfer, directly or indirectly, of liquefied natural gas (LNG) originating in or exported from Russia. That prohibition applies to purchases and transfers into the Union and to third countries.
(14) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a temporary exemption with regard to the transfer or purchase related to that transfer of LNG originating in or exported from Russia where such transfer or purchase related to that transfer is destined for third countries. In order to ensure that the temporary exemption does not undermine the objectives of the Union restrictive measures, that provision should explicitly lay down a rule that the overall capacity of Russian LNG transferred by Union operators to third countries under the temporary exemption does not exceed the yearly volume of LNG originating in or exported from Russia in 2025, thereby avoiding any increase in the export revenues Russia derives from such transfers. In order to ensure that the temporary exemption continues to serve the objectives of the Union’s restrictive measures, taking into account developments affecting Union operators, the Commission should periodically assess the measures and submit its assessment to the Council. On the basis of that assessment, the Council should review the functioning of the temporary exemption and, where appropriate, be able to decide to shorten, extend or terminate it.
(15) To ensure legal certainty and the orderly phasing out of activities covered by Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, it is appropriate to clarify that the temporary exemption concerning purchases and transfers of LNG destined for third countries should apply only where a purchase is related to a transfer executed by a Union operator. Such transfer should be carried out on the basis of a long-term contract for the supply of LNG, excluding natural gas derivatives, the duration of which exceeds one year, which was concluded before 24 February 2022 and which has not been amended after that date other than for the limited purposes permitted under Regulation (EU) No 833/2014. In addition, the purchase related to that transfer should itself be executed under a long-term contract exceeding one year, concluded before 24 February 2022 and not amended after that date other than for those same limited purposes. Such long-term contract generally must contain all the necessary elements for its validity and the execution of a transaction, such as indication of the parties, price, quantities, delivery dates, point of loading or delivery, modalities of execution. Contracts that regarding such elements require a further agreement between contracting parties do not fall under the temporary exemption, with the exception of amendments regarding the limited purposes expressly permitted under this Regulation, for example concerning operational procedures such as annual delivery programs or any other similar routine operational adjustments. Changes to such elements based on unilateral contractual clauses that cannot be opposed by the other contracting party do not preclude the applicability of the temporary exemption. All other purchases not linked to a specific transfer by a Union operator should be prohibited from 1 January 2027. Since, from that date, such purchases can no longer be lawfully made unless they remain connected to transfers by Union operators falling within the conditions of the temporary exemption, it is clear that the resulting impossibility of performance can be invoked as force majeure for the purpose of terminating existing contractual obligations to the extent that those obligations cannot continue to be performed in relation to transfers executed by Union operators.
(16) As regards the prohibition on providing LNG terminal services, Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 further refines the scope of application of that prohibition.
(17) The Union has already adopted vessel-specific designations in order to curb operations of the relevant vessels. Such operations might rely on the provision by third-country vessels of services such as bunkering, tug services and ship-to-ship transfers. In order to address and discourage the provision of such services, it is appropriate to enlarge the scope of the designation criteria to encompass the vessels providing such services. Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces additional designations of vessels.
(18) Russia derives significant revenues from the sale of oil. Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a prohibition on any transaction with refineries in Russia and in third countries other than Russia used for the processing or refining of crude oil or the processing or blending of petroleum products, as listed in Annex XXV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, or of mineral products, that originate in Russia or refineries used for the circumvention of restrictive measures. Such transactions include access to facilities of the listed refineries and the provision of any services. Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 therefore identifies one refinery under those listing criteria. That listing of one refinery should also be reflected in the relevant Annex to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014.
(19) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 clarifies the scope of the derogation as regards transactions in connection with the natural gas pipelines Nord Stream and Nord Stream 2, with regard to the completion, operation, maintenance or use of those pipelines.
(20) The Union has already adopted measures to restrict Russia’s LNG exports-related revenues. Such exports rely on the availability of LNG tankers and it is therefore important to curtail the possibility for Russia to gather and use LNG tankers. To that end, Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a notification obligation for the sale of LNG tankers and a possibility to introduce new restrictions on the sale of LNG tankers so that those tankers do not benefit Russian interests. Regarding the due diligence to be applied by Union sellers, a Union seller is not to be held liable for a subsequent breach by a buyer of the end-use commitments, provided that the Union seller acted in good faith and did not possess information suggesting an intent to circumvent the measures. The liability for such a breach rests with the third-country buyer that fails to respect the contractual prohibition. The restrictions laid down in Article 3qa of Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 apply to sellers of LNG tankers that are nationals of a Member State, natural persons residing in a Member State or legal persons, entities or bodies which are established in the Union, and require from such sellers due diligence at the time of sale. Those restrictions apply in accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 and do not have extraterritorial application on non-Union persons and entities. Those restrictions are therefore without prejudice to the flag of the tankers and do not entail for the relevant flag State any responsibility regarding compliance.
(21) The Union has repeatedly taken measures to identify financial institutions, credit institutions or entities providing crypto-asset services or payment services that facilitate a continued financial lifeline for Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, whether by connecting to the system for transfer of financial messages of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation or by enabling the circumvention of Union restrictive measures, and to prohibit any transaction between those institutions or entities and Union operators. Evidence shows that entities in third countries continue to enable Russia to carry out illicit activities. Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 therefore identifies 4 financial entities and 14 entities providing crypto-asset services by listing them in the relevant Annexes to Decision 2014/512/CFSP, with a view to prohibiting transactions between them and persons located in the Union. In addition, Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 removes one entity from Annex XVIII to Decision 2014/512/CFSP. Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 also adds five entities to the list of third-country legal persons, entities or bodies significantly frustrating the purpose of the prohibitions set out in Articles 4o, 4p and 4x of Decision 2014/512/CFSP. Those changes to the listings should also be reflected in the relevant Annexes to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014.
(22) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 extends the prohibition for Russian nationals or natural persons residing in Russia to own or control, or to hold any posts in the governing bodies of, certain legal persons, entities or bodies which are incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State, so that the prohibition applies to any entity which is providing crypto-asset services, as defined in Regulation (EU) No 2023/1114 of the European Parliament and of the Council (6).
(23) In order to maintain access to crypto-asset service providers and platforms after Council Regulation (EU) 2026/506 (7) prohibited engaging with any such providers and platforms established in Russia, banks and other persons in Russia, including listed banks, are making use of platforms that are established in third countries other than Russia. A number of those crypto-asset platforms have been listed under Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 for significantly frustrating that Regulation or Council Regulation (EU) No 269/2014 (8).
(24) In order to address such circumvention of the Union’s restrictive measures through third-country jurisdictions, Decision (CSFP) 2026/1849 introduces the possibility to prohibit all transactions with legal persons, entities or bodies that are entities providing crypto-asset services or are platforms enabling the exchange or transfer of crypto-assets and that are established in the third countries specified in the relevant Annex to Decision 2014/512/CFSP.
(25) In view of the gravity of the situation, Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 adds 33 credit or financial institutions to the list of legal persons, entities or bodies subject to a transaction ban. The transaction ban applies to certain Russian credit or financial institutions or other entities, including those subscribing to financial messaging services, or to Russian subsidiaries of third-country credit or financial institutions, which are relevant for the Russian financial and banking system, notably because they are either large or important regional banks, which consequently facilitate regional and federal finances and business, or banks which facilitate cross-border payments, or which are relevant for the Russian aggression against Ukraine, notably because they are banks which undermine the territorial integrity of Ukraine by operating in the occupied territories of Ukraine, or by providing financial services over the occupied territories of Ukraine, or banks which offer financial services to military personnel in the Russian armed forces, or banks which are already the subject of restrictive measures imposed by the Union or by partner countries. Those additional listings should also be reflected in the relevant Annex to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014.
(26) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a derogation to allow competent authorities to authorise nationals of Member States or of countries of the European Economic Area or Switzerland to withdraw funds they hold at certain credit and financial institutions and entities providing crypto-asset services or payment services which are subject to a prohibition on engaging in any transactions, in order to terminate their operations, contracts or other agreements with the relevant institution or entity. Examples of such termination include where the natural person closes his or her accounts or withdraws all the funds he or she holds at the relevant entity and does not further establish or maintain any contractual relations with the relevant entity. In order to mitigate the risk of circumvention, funds should be transferred to credit or financial institutions incorporated under the law of a Member State or owned or controlled by credit or financial institutions incorporated under the law of a Member State. That exception is without prejudice to the prohibition on operators in the Union providing financial messaging services to the entities listed in Annexes XIV, XLIV and XLV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014. Therefore, that exception is not to be interpreted as enabling the competent authority to authorise the provision of such services.
(27) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a narrowly circumscribed derogation to allow the execution of transactions with a specific entity listed under entry number 4 in Annex XVIII to Decision 2014/512/CFSP only if necessary for the payment of a consideration due to a credit institution established in the Union carried out on the basis of a put option right contractually agreed and duly exercised before 28 February 2022. That derogation does not undermine the general objectives of Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, and is justified solely by the need to address an unintended adverse consequence for a Union operator. In line with the position of the Union, that derogation should not authorise the provision of a specialised financial messaging service, which should remain prohibited under any circumstance.
(28) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a targeted exception to the prohibition to provide services directly related to tourism in Russia.
(29) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 introduces a targeted derogation for specific research institutions from the existing prohibition on the acceptance of financing, donations or any other economic benefits or support from Russia, whether directly or indirectly, to cover existing obligations, for example for the operation, maintenance, modernisation or construction of the research institutions concerned.
(30) Third countries have adopted restrictive measures similar to those relating to travel through the Union by Russian diplomats and consular officers, as well as members of the administrative, technical or service staff of Russia’s diplomatic missions or consular posts, or their family members. It is thus appropriate to extend the sharing of information with those third countries on possible breaches of the relevant restrictive measures.
(31) Regulation (EU) No 2026/506 extended the prohibition in Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 on the satisfaction of claims brought by natural or legal persons, entities or bodies established in third countries other than Russia and partner countries listed in the relevant Annex to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, where those natural or legal persons, entities or bodies are selling, supplying, transferring or exporting goods, technology or services the sale, supply, transfer or export of which is prohibited under Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, whether or not the goods, technology or services originate in the Union. Those persons can, however, bring claims in third-country jurisdictions in connection with contracts and transactions affected by those prohibitions, causing loss to nationals of a Member State or legal persons incorporated under the law of a Member State. Hence, it is necessary to extend the possibility to recover damages before the courts of a Member State.
(32) Russian legislation and court practice enable persons to lodge a claim before certain Russian courts, which then assert jurisdiction over disputes and render judgments condemning Union companies in relation to contracts or transactions affected by Union restrictive measures. Accordingly, evidence shows that Russian persons, entities or bodies, or persons, entities or bodies acting through or on behalf of one of those Russian persons, entities or bodies, or owned or controlled by such persons, entities or bodies, seek or might seek to initiate and pursue legal proceedings in connection with measures imposed under Regulations (EU) No 269/2014 and (EU) No 833/2014, or seek or might seek to obtain recognition or enforcement of judgments granted through such legal proceedings. In order to preserve the effectiveness of Union restrictive measures, it is necessary for the Union to take action to mitigate the effect of such practices. First, by ensuring that Union courts can issue, in addition to orders to not initiate or to discontinue certain abusive legal proceedings, orders to not seek to enforce, recognise or rely upon any injunction, order, relief, judgment or other court decision, in any jurisdiction, that was or might be obtained in those legal proceedings. Second, by requiring Member States to not recognise or enforce any injunction, order, relief, judgment or other court or administrative decision given by a Russian court or authority in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under Regulations (EU) No 269/2014 and (EU) No 833/2014, whether or not the relevant injunction, order, relief, judgment or other court decision is rendered pursuant to Article 248.1 or Article 248.2 of the Arbitration Procedure Code of the Russian Federation.
(33) Decision (CFSP) 2026/1849 extends the deadlines applicable to certain derogations needed for divestments from Russia. Operators should be aware that Russia is a country where the rule of law is no longer applied, and that the Russian Federation has adopted several pieces of legislation targeting assets of companies from so-called ‘unfriendly countries’, including Member States. That situation has led to the persistent threat of Union assets being stranded in Russia without the possibility for their orderly withdrawal. Against that background, undertakings in the Union are strongly advised to take any possible steps to wind down businesses in Russia and not to start new businesses there. Unfortunately, new legislation, court judgments and practices in Russia have made it even more difficult for Union operators to perform an orderly withdrawal from the Russian market. It is therefore appropriate to extend divestment derogations to enable Union undertakings to exit as swiftly as possible from the Russian market. Those extended derogations are granted on a case-by-case basis by Member States and are focused on allowing an orderly divestment process, which would not be possible without the extension of those deadlines.
(34) These measures fall within the scope of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and therefore, in particular with a view to ensuring their uniform application in all Member States, regulatory action at the level of the Union is necessary.
(35) Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 should therefore be amended accordingly,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

Article 1

Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) in Article 2(4), point (e) is replaced by the following: ‘(e) civilian electronic communications networks which are not the property of an entity that is publicly controlled or with over 50 % public ownership;’ ;
(2) in Article 2a(4), point (e) is replaced by the following: ‘(e) civilian electronic communications networks which are not the property of an entity that is publicly controlled or with over 50 % public ownership;’ ;
(3) Article 3i is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 3bb is deleted; (b) paragraph 3bc is replaced by the following: ‘3bc. As of 26 January 2026 until 31 December 2026, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the purchase or import to Hungary of goods falling under CN code 2901 10 00 originating in Russia or exported from Russia, provided that the goods are intended for exclusive use in Hungary.’ ; (c) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘3bg. With regard to goods falling under CN codes 2603, 2604, 2607, 2616, 2817, 2819, 3803, 7001, 7002, 7003, 7004, 7006, 7008, 7009, 7011, 7013, 7014, 7015, 7016, 7017, 7018, 7020, 7901, 8707 and 8708, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the execution until 25 October 2026 of contracts concluded before 24 July 2026, or of ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts.’ ; (d) paragraph 3cg is deleted; (e) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: ‘5. The import volume quotas set out in paragraphs 3ch, 3h and 4 of this Article shall be managed by the Commission and the Member States in accordance with the management system for tariff-rate quotas provided for in Articles 49 to 54 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447.’ ;
(4) Article 3k is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 3ak is deleted; (b) in paragraph 5a, point (e) is replaced by the following: ‘(e) goods falling under CN code 7615 10, CN code 8414 51, CN code 8414 60, CN code 8422 30 and CN code 8423 10;’ ; (c) paragraph 5g is replaced by the following: ‘5g. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, the export and transfer of the goods falling under CN codes 8517 62 and 8523 52, as listed in Annex XXIII, provided that they are intended for civilian electronic communications networks which are not the property of an entity that is publicly controlled or with over 50 % public ownership.’ ;
(5) in Article 3m, the following paragraph is added: ‘11. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, the competent authorities of the Member States may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, the purchase, import or transfer of crude oil or petroleum products listed in Annex XXV that originate in or are exported from Russia, as well as the provision of technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance, or any other related services, after having established that: (a) the goods concerned have been seized or confiscated by an authority of a Member State in the course of national administrative or judicial proceedings; (b) the goods concerned remain under the effective control of the authorities of a Member State or of an entity acting on behalf of those authorities during the period of custody, management and storage of the goods, until their possible sale; (c) the operations referred to in point (b) do not result, directly or indirectly, in any payment or making available of funds or economic resources for the benefit of Russian natural or legal persons, entities or bodies, or those established in Russia.’ ;
(6) in Article 3ma, the following paragraph is added: ‘3. Competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, importers to not provide evidence of the country of origin of the crude oil used for the refining of the product in a third country as referred to in paragraph 1, second subparagraph, after having established that: (a) the petroleum products concerned are intended to supply an outermost region within the meaning of Article 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or an overseas country or territory associated with the Union within the meaning of Article 198 of that Treaty; (b) due to the specific geographical, logistical or supply constraints particular to those regions, countries or territories, there is a proven risk of a disruption or serious disturbance to the supply of petroleum products; and (c) no alternative source is available to ensure the continuity of supply to the region, country or territory concerned under economically and logistically viable conditions.’ ;
(7) Article 3n is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 6b, point (b) is replaced by the following: ‘(b) to the transport, or to technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance related to such transport, of the products mentioned in Part A of Annex XXIX to the third countries mentioned therein, for the duration specified in that Annex.’ ; (b) the following paragraphs are added: ‘11a. The application of the procedure to amend the oil price cap set out in paragraph 11, including the calculation of the average market price of Russian crude oil over a period of 22 weeks, the publication of a notice of that average market price and the amendment of Annex XXVIII, shall be suspended from 24 July 2026 to 14 July 2027. 11b. By 15 January 2027, on the basis of price assessments provided by authorised reporting agencies, the Commission shall calculate the average market price of Russian crude oil over a period of 22 weeks starting as of 25 June 2026 and report the newly calculated price to the Council. Based on the report by the Commission, the Council shall review the price cap and may decide upon a joint proposal from the High Representative and the Commission to amend Annex XXVIII. The amended price cap shall apply as of the first day of the month following the month of entry into force of that amendment to Annex XXVIII. In the absence of a decision by the Council, the applicable price cap shall remain in place. As of 15 July 2027, the application of the procedure to amend the oil price cap set out in paragraph 11 shall resume.’ ;
(8) in Article 3nb, the following paragraph is added: ‘5. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities of the Member States may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, the temporary storage, and the placement under the free-zone procedure pursuant to Article 245(3) of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013, of crude oil or petroleum products listed in Annex XXV to this Regulation in Union territory, if the goods originate in or are exported from Russia, after having established that: (a) the goods concerned have been seized or confiscated by an authority of a Member State in the course of national administrative or judicial proceedings; (b) the goods concerned remain under the effective control of the authorities of a Member State or of an entity acting on behalf of those authorities.’ ;
(9) the following article is inserted: ‘Article 3qa 1. Any sale or other arrangement entailing a transfer of ownership by a national of a Member State, by a natural person residing in a Member State or by a legal person, entity or body which is established in the Union to any third country of an LNG tanker vessel falling under CN code ex 8901 20 shall be notified immediately to the competent authorities of the Member State where the owner of the vessel is a citizen, a resident or is established. The notification to the competent authority shall contain at least the following information: (a) the identities of the seller and the purchaser; (b) where applicable, the incorporation documents of the seller and the purchaser, including the shareholding and management; (c) the IMO ship identification number of the vessel; and (d) the Call Sign of the vessel. 2. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any notification under paragraph 1, within one week of the notification. 3. On the basis of an assessment by the Commission of the information provided under paragraphs 1 and 2, the Council shall review by 25 October 2026 whether a prohibition as provided for in paragraphs 4 to 9 should enter into force. 4. From the date decided by the Council under paragraph 10, it shall be prohibited for any national of a Member State, any natural person residing in a Member State and any legal person, entity or body which is established in the Union to sell, or otherwise transfer ownership, directly or indirectly, of liquified natural gas (LNG) tanker vessels falling under CN code ex 8901 20 to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia. 5. In accordance with paragraph 4, any national of a Member State, any natural person residing in a Member State and any legal person, entity or body which is established in the Union that sells or otherwise transfers the ownership, to persons, entities and bodies in any third country, directly or indirectly, of an LNG tanker vessel falling under CN code ex 8901 20 shall: (a) take appropriate steps, proportionately to their nature and size, to identify and assess the risks of onward diversion to a natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia; (b) implement appropriate policies, controls and procedures, proportionately to their nature and size, to mitigate and manage effectively the risks referred to in point (a). 6. Natural and legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in paragraph 5 acquiring LNG tanker vessels shall provide all the information necessary for the completion of the steps referred to in point (a) of that paragraph. 7. The steps referred to in paragraph 5, point (a), shall address all relevant information available at the time of the sale or transfer. 8. Any sale or other arrangement entailing a transfer of ownership by a national of a Member State, by a natural person residing in a Member State or by a legal person, entity or body which is established in the Union to any third country of an LNG tanker vessel falling under CN code ex 8901 20 shall contain a written contractual prohibition on any further resale or transfer of the vessel to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia. 9. The sale or other arrangement referred to in paragraph 8 shall also include written contractual provisions by which the third-country party acquiring the vessel: (a) commits to mirroring the prohibition in paragraph 8 in any further resale or transfer that it undertakes; and (b) obliges, in any further resale or transfer, the acquirer of the vessel to include written contractual provisions equivalent to those required by paragraph 8 and this paragraph. 10. Paragraphs 4 to 9 shall apply from the date of entry into force of a Regulation to be adopted by the Council, upon a joint proposal from the High Representative and the Commission, based on the assessment carried out by the Commission referred to in paragraph 3.’ ;
(10) in Article 3ra, the following paragraphs are added: ‘5. The prohibitions in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article shall not apply to the transport by vessel, or to technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance related to such transport, of the products listed in Part B of Annex XXIX to the third countries mentioned therein, for the duration specified in that Annex. 6. Without prejudice to paragraph 5, paragraph 1 shall not apply until 25 July 2027 and thereafter for successive periods of one year, unless the Council following an annual review decides otherwise, to transfers and, where relevant, purchases related to those transfers that are destined for third countries when both the transfer and the purchase are executed under contracts concluded before 24 February 2022, the duration of which exceeds one year and which were not amended after that date, unless such amendment is limited to: (a) lowering contracted quantities; (b) for purchase contracts, lowering prices and fees; (c) amending confidentiality clauses; (d) amending operational procedures, such as communication procedures; (e) changes of addresses of contract parties; (f) transfers of contractual obligations between affiliated undertakings; (g) changes required by judicial or arbitration procedures; or (h) for purchase contracts, for landlocked countries, changes between national delivery points. The temporary exemption to the prohibition in paragraph 1 of this Article to transfers of LNG, as set out in the first subparagraph of this paragraph, shall only apply in a given year up to the yearly volume of LNG originating in or exported from Russia in 2025 transferred by a natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in Article 13 under the existing long-term contracts of that person, entity or body, as specified in the first subparagraph of this paragraph, irrespective of its destination. Natural or legal persons, entities and bodies transferring LNG originating in or exported from Russia to third countries shall report the relevant historical volumes to the competent authorities of the Member State in which they are established by 25 August 2026, and that Member State shall report that information to the Commission without undue delay. The measures provided for in this paragraph shall be kept under regular review. By 25 June 2027 and every 12 months thereafter, the Commission shall submit to the Council an assessment of the measures provided for in this paragraph. That assessment may be submitted at an earlier date where deemed justified by the Commission. Acting on the basis of the Commission’s assessment, the Council shall on an annual basis and without undue delay review the functioning of the measures provided for in this paragraph in the light of their economic effects and the objectives of this Regulation. Following its review, the Council may decide, upon a joint proposal from the High Representative and the Commission to shorten, extend or terminate the temporary exemption in this paragraph, taking into account the effectiveness of the prohibition in this Article as well as the specific situations of certain Member States and the economic circumstances of the natural or legal persons, entities and bodies referred to in Article 13. By 25 August 2026 and every three months thereafter, natural or legal persons, bodies and entities referred to in Article 13 that transfer or purchase in relation to that transfer LNG originating in or exported from Russia to third countries shall report to the competent authorities of the Member State in which they are established at least the following information with respect to each shipment, as available, for a transfer or purchase related to that transfer, which that Member State shall report to the Commission without undue delay: (a) cargo reference number or bill of lading number; (b) vessel IMO number, name, flag state and carrier type; (c) date, port and terminal of loading and unloading; (d) final destination; (e) volume loaded and discharged; (f) contract duration; (g) contract value per cargo and gross revenue associated with each shipment; (h) name of purchaser and ultimate beneficiary; (i) name of seller and shipper. Member States and the Commission shall ensure the protection of confidential information acquired in the application of this Article in accordance with Union law and relevant national law. Member States and the Commission shall ensure that classified information provided or exchanged pursuant to this Article is not downgraded or declassified without the prior written consent of the originator of that classified information.’ ;
(11) Article 3rb is replaced by the following: ‘Article 3rb From 1 January 2027, it shall be prohibited to provide, directly or indirectly, LNG terminal services to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia, or to any legal person, entity or body which is more than 50 % owned, or which is controlled directly or indirectly, by a Russian citizen or by a legal person, entity or body in Russia. It shall be prohibited to maintain contracts concerning prohibited LNG services pursuant to this Article after 1 January 2027 .’;
(12) in Article 3s(2), the following points are added: ‘(h) provide services to vessels designated under points (a) to (g), such as bunkering services and tug services; or (i) carry out ship-to-ship transfers with vessels designated under points (a) to (h).’ ;
(13) Article 5aa is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 3, point (d) is replaced by the following: ‘(d) transactions, including sales, which are strictly necessary for the wind-down, by 31 December 2027, of a joint venture or similar legal arrangement concluded before 16 March 2022, involving a legal person, entity or body referred to in paragraph 1;’ ; (b) paragraph 3a is replaced by the following: ‘(3a) By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, transactions which are strictly necessary for the divestment and withdrawal, by 31 December 2027, by the entities referred to in paragraph 1 or their subsidiaries in the Union from a legal person, entity or body established in the Union.’ ;
(14) in Article 5ac, the following paragraphs are added: ‘8. By way of derogation from paragraph 2, the competent authorities of a Member State may authorise transactions which are strictly necessary for the withdrawal of funds or the closing of accounts owned or held by a national of a Member State, of a country member of the European Economic Area or of Switzerland, or by natural persons having a temporary or permanent residence permit in a Member State, in a country member of the European Economic Area or in Switzerland, held at legal persons entities or bodies listed in Annex XLIV and which were included in that Annex on or after 24 July 2026, under such conditions as the competent authorities deem appropriate and after having determined that: (a) the transaction is necessary for such natural person to terminate operations, contracts or other agreements concluded with a legal person, entity or body listed in Annex XLIV; (b) the authorisation is requested no later than three months after the date of application indicated in Annex XLIV for the relevant legal person, entity or body listed therein; (c) the funds are transferred to a financial or credit institution incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State, or to a financial or credit institution incorporated under the law of a third country that is owned or controlled by a financial or credit institution incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State. Any authorisation under this paragraph shall be granted for a maximum period of validity of three months. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under this paragraph, within two weeks of the authorisation. 9. By way of derogation from paragraph 2, the competent authorities of a Member State may authorise the execution of transactions with the entity listed under entry number 4 in Annex XLIV, under such conditions as they deem appropriate and after having determined that the execution of the transaction is necessary for the payment of a consideration due to a credit institution established in the Union carried out on the basis of a put option right contractually agreed and duly exercised before 28 February 2022. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under this paragraph, within two weeks of the authorisation.’ ;
(15) in Article 5ad, the following paragraph is added: ‘4. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities of a Member State may authorise transactions which are strictly necessary for the withdrawal of funds or the closing of accounts owned or held by a national of a Member State, of a country member of the European Economic Area or of Switzerland, or by natural persons having a temporary or permanent residence permit in a Member State, in a country member of the European Economic Area or in Switzerland, held at legal persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex XLV and which were included in that Annex on or after 24 July 2026, under such conditions as the competent authorities deem appropriate and after having determined that: (a) the transaction is necessary for such natural person to terminate operations, contracts or other agreements concluded with a legal person, entity or body listed in Annex XLV; (b) the authorisation is requested no later than three months after the date of application indicated in Annex XLV for the relevant legal person, entity or body listed therein; (c) the funds are transferred to a financial or credit institution incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State, or to a financial or credit institution incorporated under the law of a third country that is owned or controlled by a financial or credit institution incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State. Any authorisation under this paragraph shall be granted for a maximum period of validity of three months. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under this paragraph, within two weeks of the authorisation.’ ;
(16) in Article 5ae, the following paragraphs are inserted: ‘2a. It shall be prohibited to engage in any transaction, directly or indirectly, with refineries listed in Part D of Annex XLVII. Part D of Annex XLVII shall include refineries in Russia and in third countries other than Russia that are used: (a) for the processing or refining of crude oil or the processing or blending of petroleum products, as listed in Annex XXV, or of mineral products, that originate in Russia; or (b) in such a way as to facilitate or engage in the violation or circumvention or otherwise significantly frustrate the provisions of this Regulation or of Regulation (EU) No 269/2014, (EU) No 692/2014 or (EU) 2022/263. 2b. The prohibition referred to in paragraph 2a shall apply in respect of entry number 1 in Part D of Annex XLVII as of 25 January 2027. The Commission shall, by 25 October 2026, report to the Council its assessment of whether the listing referred to in entry number 1 in Part D of Annex XLVII should be maintained.’ ;
(17) in Article 5af(3), first subparagraph, the introductory wording is replaced by the following: ‘3. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, transactions that are strictly necessary:’ ;
(18) in Article 5b, paragraph 2a is replaced by the following: ‘2a. It shall be prohibited, as from 18 January 2024, to allow Russian nationals or natural persons residing in Russia to directly or indirectly own or control, or to hold any posts in the governing bodies of, a legal person, entity or body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State and is providing crypto-asset wallet, account or custody services. As from 25 August 2026, that prohibition shall also apply to the case of a legal person, entity or body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State and is providing any other crypto-asset services, as defined in Regulation (EU) 2023/1114.’ ;
(19) the following article is inserted: ‘Article 5bc 1. It shall be prohibited to engage, directly or indirectly, in any transaction with a legal person, entity or body that is an entity providing crypto-asset services or is a platform enabling the exchange or transfer of crypto-assets and is established in a third country listed in Annex LVII. 2. Annex LVII shall include only third countries that have been identified by the Council as having systematically and persistently failed to prevent the provision of crypto-asset services, or to prevent platforms exchanging or transferring crypto-assets, in frustration of the provisions of this Regulation or of Regulation (EU) No 269/2014. 3. The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall not apply to transactions made by nationals of a Member State who are residents of a country listed in Annex LVII and were so before the relevant date indicated in that Annex.’ ;
(20) in Article 5h, the following paragraph is added: ‘3. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities of a Member State may authorise transactions which are strictly necessary for the withdrawal of funds or the closing of accounts owned or held by a national of a Member State, of a country member of the European Economic Area or of Switzerland, or by natural persons having a temporary or permanent residence permit in a Member State, in a country member of the European Economic Area or in Switzerland, held at legal persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex XIV and which were included in that Annex on or after 24 July 2026, under such conditions as the competent authorities deem appropriate and after having determined that: (a) the transaction is necessary for such natural person to terminate operations, contracts or other agreements concluded with a legal person, entity or body listed in Annex XIV; (b) the authorisation is requested no later than three months after the date of application indicated in Annex XIV for the relevant legal person, entity or body listed therein; (c) the funds are transferred to a financial or credit institution incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State, or to a financial or credit institution incorporated under the law of a third country that is owned or controlled by a financial or credit institution incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State. Any authorisation under this paragraph shall be granted for a maximum period of validity of three months. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under this paragraph, within two weeks of the authorisation.’ ;
(21) in Article 5n, the following paragraph is inserted: ‘2a. The prohibition in paragraph 2 shall not apply to the provision of a computerised reservation system as defined in Regulation (EC) No 80/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*1), or any successive Regulation replacing it. (*1) Regulation (EC) No 80/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 January 2009 on a Code of Conduct for computerised reservation systems and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 2299/89 (OJ L 35, 4.2.2009, p. 47, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2009/80/oj).’;"
(22) Article 5t is amended as follows: (a) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘3a. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, the acceptance of donations, economic benefits or support, including financing and financial assistance, by the European X-Ray Free-Electron Laser Facility (EuXFEL), the Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research in Europe (FAIR) and the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF), provided that such donations, economic benefits or support, including financing and financial assistance, are based on international agreements with the Government of the Russian Federation.’ ; (b) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: ‘4. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under paragraph 3 or 3a, within two weeks of the authorisation.’ ;
(23) in Article 5v, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: ‘5. Member States shall inform the Council, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland of any cases of breach of the obligation in paragraph 1.’ ;
(24) in Article 7a, the following paragraph is added: ‘2. The obligation of the Commission under paragraph 1(a) shall be suspended from … 24 July 2026 to 14 July 2027 .’;
(25) in Article 11, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: ‘4. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities, based on a specific and case-by-case assessment, may authorise, until 31 December 2027, the satisfaction of a claim made by one of the persons, entities and bodies indicated in paragraph 1, point (b), under such conditions as the competent authorities deem appropriate and after having determined that the satisfaction of the claim is strictly necessary for the divestment from Russia or the wind-down of business activities in Russia.’ ;
(26) in Article 11a, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: ‘1. Any person referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), shall be entitled to recover, in judicial proceedings before the competent courts of a Member State, any direct or indirect damages, including legal costs, incurred by that person or by a legal person, entity or body that the person referred to in Article 13, point (d), owns or controls, as a consequence of claims lodged with courts in third countries by persons, entities and bodies referred to in Article 11(1), point (a), (b), (c) or (d), in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under this Regulation, provided that the person concerned does not have effective access to the remedies under the relevant jurisdiction. Such damages may be recovered from the persons, entities or bodies referred to in Article 11(1), point (a), (b), (c) or (d), that lodged the claims with the courts in the third country, or from persons, entities or bodies that own or control those entities or bodies.’ ;
(27) in Article 11c, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: ‘1. No injunction, order, relief, judgment or other court or administrative decision pursuant to or derived from Article 248.1 or Article 248.2 of the Arbitration Procedure Code of the Russian Federation or equivalent Russian legislation, or given by a Russian court or authority pursuant to any other law of the Russian Federation, holding a person referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), liable, whether in contract or in tort or on any other legal basis, or giving effect, directly or indirectly, to any claim, right or alleged obligation against such person, including in the context of insolvency, bankruptcy, restructuring or analogous proceedings, in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under this Regulation, shall be recognised, given effect or enforced in a Member State.’ ;
(28) Article 11ca is replaced by the following: ‘Article 11ca 1. Without prejudice to Articles 11a and 11b, in the event that a person referred to in Article 11(1), point (a), (b) or (c), of this Regulation initiated proceedings before a Russian court in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under this Regulation or under Regulation (EU) No 269/2014, in breach of an exclusive jurisdiction or arbitration clause, or abusively pursuant to Article 248.1 or Article 248.2 of the Arbitration Procedure Code of the Russian Federation or equivalent Russian legislation, or pursuant to any other law of the Russian Federation, or in frustration of the Union’s restrictive measures, against a natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), of this Regulation to obtain an injunction, order, relief, judgment or other court decision, the natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), of this Regulation shall be entitled to obtain, in judicial proceedings before the competent courts of a Member State, a court order ordering the person indicated in Article 11(1), point (a), (b) or (c), of this Regulation: (a) to not initiate or to discontinue those legal proceedings; or (b) to not seek to enforce, recognise, or rely upon any injunction, order, relief, judgment or other court decision, in any jurisdiction, that was or might be obtained in those legal proceedings. 2. Failure to observe the court order referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall lead to financial penalties imposed by the court proportionate to the potential loss which could be incurred by the natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), as a result of such violation. Payment of those financial penalties shall be made to the natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), that submitted the request for the court order.’ ;
(29) Article 12b is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 1, the introductory wording is replaced by the following: ‘1. By way of derogation from Articles 2, 2a, 3, 3b, 3c, 3f, 3h and 3k, the competent authorities may authorise the sale, supply or transfer of goods and technologies listed in Annexes II, VII, X, XI, XVI, XVIII, XX and XXIII to this Regulation and in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2021/821 as well as the sale, licensing or transfer in any other way of intellectual property rights or trade secrets as well as granting rights to access or re-use any material or information protected by means of intellectual property rights or constituting trade secrets, related to the goods and technology mentioned above until 31 December 2027, where such sale, supply, transfer, licensing, granting rights to access or re-use is strictly necessary for the divestment from Russia or the wind-down of business activities in Russia, provided that the following conditions are fulfilled:’ ; (b) paragraph 1a is replaced by the following: ‘1a. By way of derogation from Articles 2, 2a, 3 and 3k, the competent authorities may authorise the sale, supply or transfer of goods and technologies listed in Annexes II, VII and XXIII until 31 December 2027, where such sale, supply, transfer or provision, is strictly necessary for the divestment from a joint venture incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State before 24 February 2022, involving a Russian legal person, entity or body, and operating a gas pipeline infrastructure between Russia and third countries, or the provision of technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance related to such goods and technologies strictly necessary for the operation, essential maintenance, repair or replacement of components of such pipeline and associated infrastructure instrumental to the abovementioned divestment.’ ; (c) in paragraph 2, the introductory wording is replaced by the following: ‘2. By way of derogation from Articles 3g and 3i, the competent authorities may authorise the import or transfer of goods listed in Annexes XVII and XXI until 31 December 2027, where such import or transfer is strictly necessary for the divestment from Russia or the wind-down of business activities in Russia, provided that the following conditions are fulfilled:’ ; (d) in paragraph 2a, the introductory wording is replaced by the following: ‘2a. By way of derogation from Article 5n, the competent authorities may authorise the continuation of the provision of services listed therein until 31 December 2027 where such provision of services is strictly necessary for the divestment from Russia or the wind-down of business activities in Russia, provided that the following conditions are fulfilled:’ ;
(30) Annex IV is amended in accordance with Annex I to this Regulation;
(31) Annex VII is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation;
(32) Annex XIV is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation;
(33) Annex XXI is amended in accordance with Annex IV to this Regulation;
(34) Annex XXIX is amended in accordance with Annex V to this Regulation;
(35) Annex XLII is amended in accordance with Annex VI to this Regulation;
(36) Annex XLIV is amended in accordance with Annex VII to this Regulation;
(37) Annex XLV is amended in accordance with Annex VIII to this Regulation;
(38) Annex XLVII is amended in accordance with Annex IX to this Regulation;
(39) Annex LVII is added in accordance with Annex X to this Regulation.

Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 23 July 2026.

For the Council

The President

T. BYRNE

(1) OJ L, 2026/1849, 23.7.2026, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec/2026/1849/oj.

(2) Council Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 of 31 July 2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (OJ L 229, 31.7.2014, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2014/833/oj).

(3) Council Decision 2014/512/CFSP of 31 July 2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (OJ L 229, 31.7.2014, p. 13, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec/2014/512/oj).

(4) Council Decision (CFSP) 2025/1495 of 18 July 2025 amending Decision 2014/512/CFSP concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (OJ L, 2025/1495, 19.7.2025, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec/2025/1495/oj).

(5) Council Decision (CFSP) 2025/2032 of 23 October 2025 amending Decision 2014/512/CFSP concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (OJ L, 2025/2032, 23.10.2025, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec/2025/2032/oj).

(6) Regulation (EU) 2023/1114 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 May 2023 on markets in crypto-assets, and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 and Directives 2013/36/EU and (EU) 2019/1937 (OJ L 150, 9.6.2023, p. 40, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2023/1114/oj).

(7) Council Regulation (EU) 2026/506 of 23 April 2026 amending Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (OJ L, 2026/506, 23.4.2026, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2026/506/oj).

(8) Council Regulation (EU) No 269/2014 of 17 March 2014 concerning restrictive measures in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine ( OJ L 78, 17.3.2014, p. 6, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2014/269/oj).

ANNEX I

Annex IV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) entry 581 is replaced by the following: Number Name Identifying Information Date of listing ‘581. SFT LLC Local name: Общество с Ограниченной Ответственностью «СФТ» (ООО «СФТ») a.k.a.: Limited Liability Company SFT; CFT; OOO SFT; Obshchestvo S Ogranichennoi Otvetstvennostyu SFT Address(es): 115114, Moscow, Zamoskvorechye Municipal District, Kozhevnicheskaya Str., 10, Building 1, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 (495) 995-71-08 Website: https://cftech.ru/ Email: info@cftech.ru Registration number: 7725842590 (Tax ID/INN) 18.12.2023’;
(2) the following entries are added: Number Name Identifying Information Date of listing ‘922. LLC NTK Local name: ООО НТК Address: Room 3, Building 1, Lenin Avenue 21, 428003 Cheboksary, Chuvash Republic, Russian Federation Registration number: 1215232483 (INN) 24.7.2026 923. Asialink Logistics LLC a.k.a.: Aziyalink Logistics LLC; Asialink Shanghai Intl Logistics Co. Ltd Local name: ООО Азиялинк Логистикс Address(es): Office 250, Floor 3, Butlerova Str. 17, 117342 Moscow, Russian Federation; Office 229, Sheremetyevskoye Highway 6K, 141426 Khimki, Moscow Oblast, Russian Federation Telephone: +8 800 222 75 52 Website: https://asi-log.com; https://asialink-logistics.com Email: request@asi-log.com Registration number: 9728024860 (INN) 24.7.2026 924. LLC Korvet SPB Local name: ООО Корвет СПБ Address: Office 79, Building B, Ivana Fomina Str. 6, 194295 Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 812 2143858 Website: http://corvetspb.ru Email: info@corvetspb.ru Registration number: 7802537882 (INN) 24.7.2026 925. Pixel Devices Limited Address: 16/F, New Hennessey Tower, 263 Hennessey Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong Telephone: +852 3959 8125 Website: http://pixel-devices.com Email: info@pixel-devices.com Registration number: 2569276 (TRN); 68097356 (BRN) 24.7.2026 926. Mastel Makina Ithalat Ihracat Limited Sirketi Address(es): No. 9, Block A, Selenium Retro 9, Chobancheshme e5 No. 16/1, Atakoy 7-8-9-10 District, 34203 Bakirkoy, Istanbul, Republic of Türkiye; No. 18/20/1 Beyazit Mahallesi Kalcilar Sokak, 34126 Fatih, Istanbul, Republic of Türkiye Telephone: +90 501 000 00 47 Website: https://www.mastelmakina.com Email: info@mastelmakina.com Registration number: 145225-5 24.7.2026 927. LLC TMK a.k.a.: LLC Trademicrocomponent Local name: ООО ТМК; ОБЩЕСТВО С ОГРАНИЧЕННОЙ ОТВЕТСТВЕННОСТЬЮ ТРЕЙДМИКРОКОМПОНЕНТ Address: Room V, Office 25b, Building 13, Floor 8, Akademika Koroleva Str., Municipal District Ostankinsky, 129515, Moscow, Russian Federation Phone: +7 985 6823802 Website: www.tmc-msc.ru Email: info.@tmc-msc.ru Registration number: 9717092033 (INN) 24.7.2026 928. LLC KB LIS a.k.a.: LLC CB Lis Local name: ООО КБ Лис Address: Office 511, 17 Vsevolozhsky Avenue, 188640 Vsevolozhsk, Leningrad Oblast, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 812 2141287 Website: http://kblis.ru Email: sales@kblis.ru Registration number: 4706059162 (INN) 24.7.2026 929. RLVT Tula a.k.a.: LLC Russian Laboratory of Air Transport; Russian Air Transport Laboratory LLC; LLC Russkaya Laboratoriya Vozdushnogo Transporta Local name: ООО РЛВТ Address: Office 3, Building 3d, Ryazanskaya Str., 300026, Tula Oblast, Tula City, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 953 9599991 Email: company@ovod71.ru Registration number: 7100027464 (INN); 1227100012369 (OGRN) 24.7.2026 930. OKB Astron a.k.a.: OKB Astron JSC; JSC Optical and Mechanical Design Bureau Astron; AO OKB ASTRON Local name: АО ОКБ Астрон Address(es): Room 3, Artema Str. 2b, 283086 Donetsk City, Donetsk Temporarily Occupied Territory, Ukraine; Parkovaya St. 1, 140080 Lytkarino, Moscow Oblast, Russian Federation Telephone(s): +7 495 2151382; +7 495 2151379 Website: https://astrohn.ru/ Email: info@astrohn.ru Registration number: 5027224977 (INN) 24.7.2026 931. Xiefeng (HK) Int’l Electronics Ltd. Local name: 攜豐(香港)國際電子有限公司 Address: Room A, 3/F, Wing Tat Commercial Building, 121-125 Wing Lok Str., Sheung Wan, Hong Kong Registration number: 37624249 (BRN); 1108242 (TRN) 24.7.2026 932. Corp-Link International Forwarding Ltd. Local name: 聯盈國際物流有限公司 Address: Flat A1, 2/F Wing Cheung Industrial Building, 58-70 Kwai Cheong Road, Hong Kong Website: www.corplink-logistics.com Registration number: 50664436 (BRN); 1336155 (TRN) 24.7.2026 933. Dalian Unimatic Trading Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: Dalian Youmante Trading Co. Ltd Local name: 大连尤曼特贸易有限公司 Address: Room 321-01, 3rd Floor, No. 199 Zhuangda Road, Changsheng Str., Zhuanghe City, Dalian City, Liaoning Province, People’s Republic of China Registration number: 91210283MAC567EQ70 (USCC) 24.7.2026 934. Altegrity LLC Local name: ООО Альтегрити Address: Office 1TS, Building 11, 4th Magistralnaya Str., Khoroshevsky Municipal District, 123308 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 9847144 Registration number: 7716619740 (INN); 5087746394269 (OGRN) 24.7.2026 935. Shenzhen Yilian Technology Development Co. Ltd Local name: 深圳市易连科技开发有限公司 Address: Floor 6, Building 5, Rundongsheng Industrial Zone 467, Xixiang Section of National Highway 107, Longteng Community, Xixiang Subdistrict, Bao’an District, 518100 Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 13392854255 Website: https://www.e-lines.cn/ Email: info@e-lines.cn Registration number: 91440300061413490Q (USCC) 24.7.2026 936. KCONE International Trade Ltd. Local name: 鯤宸國際貿易有限公司 Address: Room 101A, 1/F Genplas Industrial Building, 56 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong Registration number: 75088396 (BRN); 3256373 (TRN) 24.7.2026 937. Alfatrex Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi Address: Ataköy 7. 8. 9. 10. Kısım Mahallesi, Çobançeşme E5 Yanyol Caddesi, No:22/1, Nef22 A Blok, Daire No: 227, 34158 Bakırköy, Istanbul, Republic of Türkiye Website: www.alfatrex.com.tr Registration number: 411319-5 24.7.2026 938. Guangzhou Feiren Logistics Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: Feiren Logistics (Guangzhou) Co. Ltd Local name: 广州市飞仁物流有限公司 Addresses: Room 106, 1st Floor, Dishen Warehouse, No. 221 Tongjia Road, Tongde Str., Baiyun District, 510405 Guangzhou, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 36513456 Registration number: 91440101687679653R (USCC) 24.7.2026 939. LLC Exima MSK a.k.a.: Eksima MSK Local name: ООО ЭКСИМА МСК Address: Apartment 64, Building 1, Gorbunova Str. 17, Mozhaisky Municipal District, 121596 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 5454686 Website: https://exima-msk.com/ Email: info@exima-msk.com Registration number: 9731097379 (INN), 1227700483350 (OGRN) 24.7.2026 940. Newton-ITM LLC a.k.a.: Nyuton-ITM; Neyuton ITM; LLC Neyuton ITM; Engineering Center SDM LLC Local name: ООО Ньютон-Итм Address(es): Room 4N/3, Office 303, Building 31, Mira Avenue 102, 129626, Moscow, Russian Federation; Workshop 11a, Tsentralnaya Str., 81 Novoseltsovo Village, Mytishchi, Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 280 05 88 Website: https://www.newton-itm.com/ Email: newton-itm@newton-itm.com; info@newton-itm.com Registration number: 5032295067 (INN) 24.7.2026 941. JSC Elekond a.k.a.: JSC Elecond Local name: АО Элеконд Address: Kalinina Str. 3, 427968 Sarapul, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 341 4729989; +7 341 4729977 Website: https://elecond.ru/ Email: elecond-market@elcudm.ru Registration number: 1827003592 (INN) 24.7.2026 942. LLC Uralshina a.k.a.: LLC Ural Tire Plant; Uralskii Shinnyi Zavod Local name: ООО Уралшина Address: Building 76, Blagodatskaya Str., Yekaterinburg, 620087, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 343 2641200; +7 343 2641256; +7 343 2641119 Website: https://uralshina.ru/ Email: shina@uralshina.ru; sbit@uralshina.ru; snab@uralshina.ru; rabota@uralshina.ru Registration number: 6674134107 (INN) 24.7.2026 943. LLC Metall Service Local name: ООО Металл Сервис Address: Apartment 1, 60 Eletskaya Str., Tambov, 392009, Tambov Oblast, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 800 200 68 21 Website: https://mc24.ru/ Email: info@mc24.ru Registration number: 6829008267 (INN) 24.7.2026 944. LLC PE-5 a.k.a.: LLC Polyezny Element-5 Local name: ООО ПЭ-5 Address: Block 1, Building 1, 2nd Karacharovskaya Str., 109202, Moscow, Russian Federation Website: www.pe-5.ru Registration number: 9721206357 (INN) 24.7.2026 945. LLC NPP Inject a.k.a.: LLC Research and Production Enterprise Inject, Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Predpriyatie Inzhekt Local name: ООО НПП “Инжект” Address: Office 1, Building 3a, Elmashevskaya Str., Saratov, 410033, Saratov Oblast, Russian Federation Website: https://nppinject.ru/ Registration number: 6453142068 (INN) 24.7.2026 946. Chongqing Giaero Electrical Co. Ltd a.k.a.: Chongqing Guihang Electrical Appliance Co., Ltd Local name: 重庆贵航电器有限公司 Address(es): No 68 Kecheng Road, Jiulongpo District, 400039 Chongqing, People’s Republic of China; No 99 Kecheng Road, Jiulongpo District, 400039 Chongqing, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 02368646608 Website: https://cqguihang.com/ Email: guihangcq@163.com Registration number: 91500107345943637F (USSC) 24.7.2026 947. Coskunoz Alabuga LLC Local name: ООО Джошкуноз Алабуга Address: Building 4/2, Sh-2 Str. (Alabuga Special Economic Zone), Yelabuga City, Yelabuga Municipal District, Republic of Tatarstan, 423601, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 85557 53434 Website: https://www.coskunoz.ru Email: alabuga@coskunoz.ru Registration number: 1646033764 (INN) 24.7.2026 948. SSC Alabuga LLC Local name: ООО СМЦ Алабуга Address: Building 4/5, Sh-2 Str. (Alabuga Special Economic Zone), Yelabuga City, Yelabuga Municipal District, Republic of Tatarstan, 423601, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 85557 53434 Registration number: 1646043603 (INN) 24.7.2026 949. CETS LLC a.k.a.: CETS LLC Coskunoz Engineering & Technological Solutions Local name: ООО Джетс Address: Office 14, 5 Universitetskaya Str., Innopolis, 420500, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 85557 53434 Website: https://www.cets.ru/eng/ Email: info@cets.ru Registration number: 1683001288 (INN) 24.7.2026 950. AAA China Limited a.k.a.: Shenzhen Wanma International Freight Forwarding Co., Ltd. Address: Room 1201, Baihuo Plaza West Building, No. 3020 Shennan Road E, 518001 Shenzhen, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 755 82192157 Website: https://www.aaalogisticsgroup.com/ Registration number: 91440300570016397Q (USCC) 24.7.2026 951. Shenzhen Wanma International Freight Forwarding Co., Ltd. a.k.a.: AAA China Limited Local name: 深圳市万马国际货物运输代理有限公司 Address: Room 1201, Baihuo Plaza West Building, No. 3020 Shennan Road E, 518001 Shenzhen, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 755 82192157 Website: https://www.aaalogisticsgroup.com/ Registration number: 91440300MA5GJRFX36 (USCC) 24.7.2026 952. Vik Test LLC Local name: ООО Вик Тест Address: Volokolamskoye Shosse 116, Building 1, Floor 2, Room 261, 125371 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 499 3908869 Website: http://viktest.ru/ Email: info@viktest.ru Registration number: 7726383596 (INN) 24.7.2026 953. JSC Tyazhmash Local name: АО Тяжмаш Address: Building 13, Gidroturbinnaya Str., Syzran, 446010, Samara Oblast, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 8464 378109; +7 8464 378999; +7 8464 977577 Website: https://tyazhmash.com/en/ Email: info@tyazhmash.com Registration number: 6325000660 (INN) 24.7.2026 954. Luoyang Shennai Import & Export Trading Co., Ltd. Local name: 洛阳申耐进出口贸易有限公司 Address(es): Room 1101, Building 2, Beihang Science and Technology Pack, Jiudu West Road, High-tech Zone, Luoyang, People’s Republic of China; Block 302, Building 39, Area B3, China (Henan) Pilot Free Trade Zone (FZT), Luoyang, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 13837997923 Website: https://www.luoyangsndl.cn/lianxi/ Email: luoyangsndl@163.com Registration number: 91410300MA46U5JD4J (USCC) 24.7.2026 955. Suzhou Goodwill Machinery Equipment Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: Suzhou Gedewei Machinery Equipment Co., Ltd.; Suzhou Godeway Machinery Equipment Co. Ltd. Local name: 苏州歌得维机械设备有限公司 Address: 21 Xiexin Road, New District, Suzhou City, 215163, Jiangsu Province, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 189 12765130 Website: http://goodwillme.cn Email: info@goodwillme.cn Registration number: 91320505MA1WT5KL9D (USCC) 24.7.2026 956. Zepto Microwave and Chip Devices Assembly LLP Address: Plot No. Cp 09, Sector 08, Manesar, Gurugram, 122052, Haryana, Republic of India Website: http://zeptomicrowave.com/contact.php Email: support@zeptomicrowave.com; richagarg@zeptomicrowave.com Registration number: AAJ-2354 (Trade Register Number) 24.7.2026 957. Dalian Unitech Trading Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: Dalian Unitek Trading Co., Ltd , Dalian Unitec Trading Co., Ltd Local name: 大连尤尼泰克贸易有限公司 Address: 38A-34, Fuqian Road, Yangjia Manchu Township, Wafangdian city, Liaoning Province, Dalian City, People’s Republic of China Registration number: 91210242MACN44NL0X (USCC) 24.7.2026 958. ZENIT LLC Local name: ООО Зенит Address: Building 7, Room 529, Dimitrova Avenue, Novosibirsk, 630132, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 916 6726258 Registration number: 7708317135 (INN) 24.7.2026 959. Nova Proekt LLC a.k.a.: Nova Project LLC Local name: Нова проект Жоопкерчилиги чектелген коому Address: Ibraimov Str. 115, Sverdlov District, 720001, Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic Registration number: 00908202210145 (TIN) 24.7.2026 960. JSC Trek Local name: АО Трэк Address: Office 54, Room 1, Building 1-n, Aleksandra Matrosova Str., Saint Petersburg, 194100, Russian Federation Registration number: 7731374420 (INN) 24.7.2026 961. Yiwu Weishuo Import and Export Co., Ltd. Local name: 义乌市卫硕进出口有限公司 Address: Floor 30, Suite B, Bingwang Road, 3004-1, Jinhua, 321000, People’s Republic of China Registration number: 91330782MA7L2R37X9 (USCC) 24.7.2026 962. Interlink Freight Agency LLC Address: Office CMT1070, Cargo Village, Cargo Mega Terminal, Dubai International Airport, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Telephone: +971 55 7910800 Website: https://interlinkgulf.com/ Email: info@interlinkgulf.com Registration number: 1028186 (TRN) 24.7.2026 963. LLC Rama Group Local name: Рама Групп жоопкерчилиги чектелген коому Address: Gogol Str. 28, Sverdlov District, 720021, Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic Registration number: 02002202310071 (TIN) 24.7.2026 964. Shisan Ltd. a.k.a.: Shisan LLC Local name: Шисан жоопкерчилиги чектелген коому Address: Gogol Str. 28, Sverdlov District, 720021, Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic Registration number: 02207202210262 (TIN) 24.7.2026 965. RBG Solutions FZE Local name: آر بي جي للحلول م م ح Address: Business Centre, Sharjah Publishing City Free Zone, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates Registration number: 4203387.01 (License No.) 24.7.2026 966. TOO TauKZ a.k.a.: TOO TawKZ; TauKZ LLP; TawKZ LLP Local name: Товарищество с ограниченной ответственностью “ТауКЗ” Address: Building 19, Amangeldi Imanov Str., Baikonur District, 10005 Astana City, Republic of Kazakhstan Telephone: +7 7021041735 Website: www.taw.kz Email: sales@taw.kz Registration number: 230540019530 (BIN) 24.7.2026 967. JSC Berg AB Local name: АО Берг АБ Address(es): 12th Floor, Sadovniki Str. 2, 115487 Moscow, Russian Federation; Unit 2, Building 1, Sadovniki Str. 4, 115487 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 2233070 Website: https://bergab.ru/ Email: skf@bergab.ru; bergab@yandex.ru Registration number: 7725237190 (INN) 24.7.2026 968. KBR Tekhnologii TOO a.k.a.: KBR Technologies LLP Local name: ТОО КБР-ТЕХНОЛОГИИ Address: Ul. G. Musrepova Str. 34B Petropavl, Republic of Kazakhstan Telephone: +7 7773256532 Registration number: 220540015774 (BIN) 24.7.2026 969. Falcon Toolings Address: 205-1 and 2, Kuttai Thottam, Kalapatti, 641048 Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, Republic of India Telephone: +91 422 2666156 Website: https://www.falcontoolings.in/; https://www.falcontoolings.com/ Email: sales@falcontoolings.com Registration number: 33AAAFF7255L1ZC (GST No) 24.7.2026 970. Suvari Global Endustriyel Ekipmanlar İthalat İhracat Ticaret Limited Şirketi Address: Summer Park Sitesi A D13, No. 8A Oba Mahallesi, 225 Sokak, Alanya, 07400, Antalya, Republic of Türkiye Registration number: 26722 (Trade Register Number), 7881047729 (TIN) 24.7.2026 971. Uzay Group Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi a.k.a.: Uzay Group Havacilik Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi Address: Akbati Avm A Blok D:314 No:6 Koza Mahallesi 1655, Sokak Esenyurt, 34538 Istanbul, Marmara, Republic of Türkiye Telephone: +90 212 8525355 Website: www.uzaygroup.com.tr Email: info@uzaygroup.com.tr Registration number: 985592 (trade register number (Istanbul Merkez)) 24.7.2026 972. CJSC Marine Bridge and Navigation Systems Local name: AO МОРСКИЕ НАВИГАЦИОННЫЕ СИСТЕМЫ Address: 19 Promyshlennaya Str., 198095 Saint-Petersburg, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 812 3203840 Website: https://mnsspb.ru/ Email: mns@mnsspb.ru Registration number: 7805013333 (INN) 24.7.2026’.

ANNEX II

Annex VII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) in Part A, Category III, Part 1 (Telecommunications), section X.A.III.101 (Telecommunication equipment), the following items are added: ‘j. Radio frequency systems and equipment not included in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, components and accessories, specially designed or modified to develop any of the following functions: a. Take control and command of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs); b. Deliberately and selectively interfere with, deny, inhibit, degrade or deceive radio frequency signals for the control and command of UAVs; c. Use the specific features of the radio frequency protocol used by UAVs to interfere with their operation. Technical Note: Such systems and equipment may include radio frequency jammers, protocol analysers, signal spoofers, takeover systems, directional antennas, software-defined radio (SDR) platforms, electronic warfare modules, and associated control software or firmware specifically adapted for counter-UAV applications.’;
(2) in Part A, Category IX (Special Materials and Related Equipment), the following sections are inserted: ‘X.C.IX.018 Self-adhesive plates, sheets, film, foil, tape, strip and other flat shapes, not specified in Regulation (EU) 2021/821, having all of the following characteristics: a. A maximum operating temperature exceeding 413,15 K (140 °C) and a minimum operating temperature of less than 233,15 K (-40 °C); and b. Compliant with all of the following, measured in accordance with the standard ASTM E595 or “equivalent standards”: 1. A ‘Total Mass Loss’ (TML) equal to or less than 1,0 %; and 2. A ‘Collected Volatile Condensable Material’ (CVCM) equal to or less than 0,10 %. Technical Notes: 1. For the purposes of the control X.C.IX.018, ‘Total Mass Loss’ (TML) is the percentage reduction in specimen mass caused by volatilisation of materials under specified vacuum and temperature conditions according to the standard ASTM E595 or “equivalent standards”. Where: Mi = initial specimen mass Mf = final specimen mass after vacuum exposure 2. For the purposes of the control X.C.IX.018, ‘Collected Volatile Condensable Material’ (CVCM) is the percentage of outgassed volatile material from a test specimen that condenses on a specified collector maintained at controlled temperature. Where: Mc= mass collected on the condenser plate Mi = initial specimen mass X.C.IX.019 Nickel powder, nickel metal and alloys having a nickel purity content of 50 % or greater by weight, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821. X.C.IX.020 Beryllium powder having a beryllium purity content of 50 % or greater by weight, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821.’;
(3) in Part A, Category VII (Aerospace and Propulsion), the following sections are inserted: ‘X.A.VII.004 Servomotors having a torque-to-weight ratio equal or higher than 0,16. Technical Note: The torque-to-weight ratio is computed considering the torque in kgf*cm and the weight in g. X.A.VII.005 Launch systems for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), and parts thereof, other than those specified in the CML or in Regulation (EU) 2021/821. X.A.VII.006 Ground support equipment for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). X.A.VII.007 ‘Flight termination’ systems and specially designed components therefor. Note: This control covers digital and analogue communications standards for ‘Flight termination’ systems, including encrypted operational modes. Technical Notes: 1. For the purpose of this control, ‘flight termination’ can involve a controlled descent, self-destruction of the UAV or missile, or detonation of the warhead to minimise the risk of collateral damage. 2. For the purpose of this control, components include ground and on-board equipment, command exciters, encoders, amplifier controllers, command verification receivers, amplifiers, transmitters, decoders and receivers. X.D.VII.003 “Software”, for the “use” of equipment controlled by X.A.VII.006 or X.A.VII.007.’.

ANNEX III

In Annex XIV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, the following entries are added:

Name of the legal person, entity or body Date of application ‘Joint Stock Company Commercial Bank Energobank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Bank Finservice 13.8.2026 Commercial Bank Moskommertsbank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Ingo Bank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Realist Bank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Bank United Capital 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Togliattikhimbank 13.8.2026 Limited Liability Company Cifra Bank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Databank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Commercial RosDorBank 13.8.2026 Public Joint Stock Company YUG-Invest Bank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Auto Finance Bank 13.8.2026 Commercial bank Renaissance Credit (Limited Liability Company) 13.8.2026 Public Joint Stock Company Commercial Bank Primorye 13.8.2026 Public Joint Stock Company Transcapitalbank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Bank National Standard 13.8.2026 Public Joint Stock Company National Bank Trust 13.8.2026 Public Joint Stock Company Chelindbank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Koshelev-Bank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Commercial Bank International Financial Club - MFK Bank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Commercial Bank Unistream 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company SPB Bank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Gazenergobank 13.8.2026 Public Joint Stock Company Commercial Bank Center-Invest 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Commercial Bank Modulbank 13.8.2026 Limited Liability Company Bank Round 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Commercial Bank Agropromcredit 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Bank Accept 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Interprogressbank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Commercial Bank Forshtadt 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Belgorodsotsbank 13.8.2026 Limited Liability Company CMRBank 13.8.2026 Joint Stock Company Credit Ural Bank 13.8.2026’.

ANNEX IV

Annex XXI to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) the following entries are inserted: CN code Name of the good ‘2603 Copper ores and concentrates 2604 Nickel ores and concentrates 2607 Lead ores and concentrates 2616 Precious-metal ores and concentrates 2817 Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide 2819 Chromium oxides and hydroxides 3803 Tall oil, whether or not refined 7001 Cullet and other waste and scrap of glass, excluding glass from cathode-ray tubes or other activated glass of heading 8549; glass in the mass 7002 Glass in balls (other than microspheres of heading 7018), rods or tubes, unworked 7003 Cast glass and rolled glass, in sheets or profiles, whether or not having an absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked 7004 Drawn glass and blown glass, in sheets, whether or not having an absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked 7006 Glass of heading 7003, 7004 or 7005, bent, edge-worked, engraved, drilled, enamelled or otherwise worked, but not framed or fitted with other materials 7008 Multiple-walled insulating units of glass 7009 Glass mirrors, whether or not framed, including rear-view mirrors 7011 Glass envelopes (including bulbs and tubes), open, and glass parts thereof, without fittings, for electric lamps and light sources, cathode-ray tubes or the like 7013 Glassware of a kind used for table, kitchen, toilet, office, indoor decoration or similar purposes (other than that of heading 7010 or 7018) 7014 Signalling glassware and optical elements of glass (other than those of heading 7015), not optically worked 7015 Clock or watch glasses and similar glasses, glasses for non-corrective or corrective spectacles, curved, bent, hollowed or the like, not optically worked; hollow glass spheres and their segments, for the manufacture of such glasses 7016 Paving blocks, slabs, bricks, squares, tiles and other articles of pressed or moulded glass, whether or not wired, of a kind used for building or construction purposes; glass cubes and other glass smallwares, whether or not on a backing, for mosaics or similar decorative purposes; leaded lights and the like; multicellular or foam glass in blocks, panels, plates, shells or similar forms 7017 Laboratory, hygienic or pharmaceutical glassware, whether or not graduated or calibrated 7018 Glass beads, imitation pearls, imitation precious or semi-precious stones and similar glass smallwares, and articles thereof other than imitation jewellery; glass eyes other than prosthetic articles; statuettes and other ornaments of lamp-worked glass, other than imitation jewellery; glass microspheres not exceeding 1 mm in diameter: 7020 Other articles of glass 7901 Unwrought zinc 8707 Bodies (including cabs), for the motor vehicles of headings 8701 to 8705 8708 Parts and accessories of the motor vehicles of headings 8701 to 8705’;
(2) the entry for CN code 4302 is replaced by the following: CN code Name of the good ‘ex 4302 Tanned or dressed furskins (including heads, tails, paws and other pieces or cuttings) excluding of sable (Martes zibellina), unassembled, or assembled (without the addition of other materials) other than those of heading 4303’.

ANNEX V

Annex XXIX to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is replaced by the following:

‘ANNEX XXIX

Part A - List of products and third countries referred to in Article 3n(6b), point (b)

Scope of exemption Date of application Date of expiration The transport by vessel to Japan, the technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance related to such transport, of crude oil falling under CN 2709 00 commingled with condensate, originating in the Sakhalin-2 (Сахалин-2) Project, located in Russia 5 December 2022 31 March 2028

Part B - List of products and third countries referred to in Article 3ra(5)

Scope of exemption Date of application Date of expiration The transport by vessel to Japan, the technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance related to such transport, of liquified natural gas falling under CN code 2711 11 00, originating in the Sakhalin-2 (Сахалин-2) Project, located in Russia 24 July 2026 31 March 2028 The transport by vessel to the Republic of Korea, the technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance related to such transport, of liquified natural gas falling under CN code 2711 11 00, originating in the Sakhalin-2 (Сахалин-2) Project, located in Russia 24 July 2026 31 March 2028 ’.

ANNEX VI

Annex XLII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) entry 629 is replaced by the following: Vessel name IMO number Grounds for inclusion Date of application ‘629. STORMBRINGER (ex KRITI VIGOR) 9290397 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026’;
(2) the following entries are added: Vessel name IMO number Grounds for inclusion Date of application ‘652. ALEKSEY KOSYGIN 9904546 Article 3s(2), point (c): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies for the exploitation, development or expansion of the energy sector in Russia, including energy infrastructure. 24.7.2026 653. ANAYA 9326885 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 654. LUCH 9317315 Article 3s(2), point (c): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies for the exploitation, development or expansion of the energy sector in Russia, including energy infrastructure. 24.7.2026 655. DAKAR 9251743 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 656. PALLADA 9250050 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 657. SOLSTRAUM 9157014 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 658. ERIDAN 9157002 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 659. G.ROSSINI 9156981 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 660. KORD ARCTIC 9036272 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 661. KORSAKOV 8724793 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 662. ABRAU 9422964 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 663. BELLARIS 9332614 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 664. FLINT WIND 9314179 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 665. ZHUO YUAN 9408683 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 666. DAPHNE V 9321677 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 667. YEHOPE 9243320 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 668. VASILY SURIKOV 9645023 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 669. PORT OLYA-3 9481910 Article 3s(2), point (a): transport goods and technology used in the defence and security sector, from or to Russia, for use in Russia or for Russia’s warfare in Ukraine; 24.7.2026 670. MIDVOLGA-3 9735141 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 671. ORENBURG 9687992 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 672. PIONEER 9255282 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 673. ANDREY PERVOZVANNIY 9255268 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 674. AKKORD 9259599 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 675. ADMIRAL 9274446 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 676. KUMANA 9809538 Article 3s(2), point (h): provide services to vessels designated under points (a) to (g), such as bunkering services and tug services. 24.7.2026 677. BILAL BEY 8984848 Article 3s(2), point (h): provide services to vessels designated under points (a) to (g), such as bunkering services and tug services. 24.7.2026 678. BEBEK-E 7808401 Article 3s(2), point (h): provide services to vessels designated under points (a) to (g), such as bunkering services and tug services. 24.7.2026 679. LADY JASMINE 1031537 Article 3s(2), point (h): provide services to vessels designated under points (a) to (g), such as bunkering services and tug services. 24.7.2026 680. OCEAN FORTUNE 18 1064493 Article 3s(2), point (h): provide services to vessels designated under points (a) to (g), such as bunkering services and tug services. 24.7.2026 681. VIRENT 9332171 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 682. ABINSK 9303869 Article 3s(2), point (d): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies which undermine or threaten the economic subsistence or food security of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian grain, or the preservation of cultural heritage of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian cultural goods. 24.7.2026 683. ALEXANDER NEVSKIY 9356610 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 684. IRTYSH 9664976 Article 3s(2), point (d): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies which undermine or threaten the economic subsistence or food security of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian grain, or the preservation of cultural heritage of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian cultural goods. 24.7.2026 685. KRASNODAR 9296781 Article 3s(2), point (d): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies which undermine or threaten the economic subsistence or food security of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian grain, or the preservation of cultural heritage of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian cultural goods. 24.7.2026 686. SANRAYZ 8862935 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 687. SVYATOI KNYAZ VLADIMIR 9838864 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 688. ALBEDO 9213313 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026 689. PERUN 9582776 Article 3s(2), point (d): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies which undermine or threaten the economic subsistence or food security of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian grain, or the preservation of cultural heritage of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian cultural goods. 24.7.2026 690. IRKUTSK 9419084 Article 3s(2), point (d): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies which undermine or threaten the economic subsistence or food security of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian grain, or the preservation of cultural heritage of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian cultural goods. 24.7.2026 691. DAMAS WAVE 8915299 Article 3s(2), point (d): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies which undermine or threaten the economic subsistence or food security of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian grain, or the preservation of cultural heritage of Ukraine, such as the transport of stolen Ukrainian cultural goods. 24.7.2026 692. TAVIAN 9147447 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.7.2026’.

ANNEX VII

Annex XLIV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) the following entry is deleted: Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force ‘8. Yelo Bank (Azerbaijan) 14.5.2026’;
(2) the following entry is added: Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force ‘9. CJSC Eco-Islamic Bank (Kyrgyzstan) 13.8.2026’.

ANNEX VIII

Annex XLV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) the following entries are added to Part A (list of credit and financial institutions and entities providing crypto-assets services or payment services established outside of the Union that are significantly frustrating the purpose of the prohibitions in this Regulation and Regulation (EU) No 269/2014): Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force ‘Rapira 23.8.2026 Aifory Pro (Sooty Ltd.) 23.8.2026 ABCeX (Nueva Cryptologia S.A.S DE C.V.) 23.8.2026 WhiteBird 23.8.2026 NoOnecrypto INC. 23.8.2026 Tradex (Brightum LLC) 23.8.2026 Monease Ltd 23.8.2026 BitPapa 23.8.2026 Exnode, Exnode Pay (Arvix) 23.8.2026 HTX (HUOBI GLOBAL SA) 23.8.2026 EXMO Ltd 23.8.2026 Chinggis Khaan Bank 13.8.2026 Sberbank India 13.8.2026 India VTB 13.8.2026 A7 Nigeria 13.8.2026 A7 Africa 13.8.2026 PilotFinance Ltd 13.8.2026’;
(2) the following entries are added to Part C (list of legal persons, entities or bodies established outside of the Union that are significantly frustrating the purpose of the prohibitions set out in Articles 3m, 3n and 3s of this Regulation): Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force ‘Vistula Delta Global FZE 13.8.2026 Estrella Integrated FZE 13.8.2026 Linglong Trading Group FZE 13.8.2026 Arcadia International FZE 13.8.2026 Nexus Oil Trading FZCO 13.8.2026’.

ANNEX IX

Annex XLVII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) the following entries are added to Part A (List of ports and locks in Russia): Name Grounds for inclusion Date of application ‘8. Olya Article 5ae(1), point (a): used for the transfer of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) or missiles or related technologies or components thereof in support of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine 24.7.2026 9. Vysotsk Article 5ae(1), point (c): used for the maritime transport of crude oil or petroleum products, as listed in Annex XXV, that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia by vessels practicing irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33) 24.7.2026’;
(2) the following entries are added to Part B (List of airports): Name Grounds for inclusion Date of application ‘7. Sheremetyevo Airport Article 5ae(2), point (b): used for the transport of goods and technology used in the defence and security sector, from or to Russia, for use in Russia or for Russia’s warfare in Ukraine 24.7.2026 8. Ulyanovsk-Vostochny Airport Article 5ae(2), point (b): used for the transport of goods and technology used in the defence and security sector, from or to Russia, for use in Russia or for Russia’s warfare in Ukraine 24.7.2026 9. Rostov-on-Don Platov Airport Article 5ae(2), point (b): used for the transport of goods and technology used in the defence and security sector, from or to Russia, for use in Russia or for Russia’s warfare in Ukraine 24.7.2026 10. Mineralnye Vody Airport Article 5ae(2), point (b): used for the transport of goods and technology used in the defence and security sector, from or to Russia, for use in Russia or for Russia’s warfare in Ukraine 24.7.2026’;
(3) the following Part is added: ‘Part D – List of refineries in Russia and in third countries other than Russia Name Grounds for inclusion Date of application 1. Kulevi Oil Refinery, Georgia Article 5ae(2a), point (a): used for the processing or refining of crude oil or the processing or blending of petroleum products, as listed in Annex XXV, or of mineral products, that originate in Russia Article 5ae(2a), point (b): used in such a way as to facilitate or engage in the violation or circumvention or otherwise significantly frustrate the provisions of this Regulation or of Regulation (EU) No 269/2014, (EU) No 692/2014 or (EU) 2022/263 25.1.2027 ’.

ANNEX X

The following Annex is added to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014:

‘ANNEX LVII

List of countries referred to in Article 5bc’.

 

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2026/1848/oj

ISSN 1977-0677 (electronic edition)