Official Journal of the European Union EN L series
2026/506 23.4.2026

COUNCIL REGULATION (EU) 2026/506

of 23 April 2026

amending Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine

THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 215 thereof,

Having regard to Council Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 of 23 April 2026 amending Decision 2014/512/CFSP concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (1),

Having regard to the joint proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the European Commission,

Whereas:

(1) On 31 July 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 (2).
(2) Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 gives effect to certain measures provided for in Council Decision 2014/512/CFSP (3).
(3) On 23 April 2026, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2026/508, which amends Decision 2014/512/CFSP.
(4) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 adds 60 entities to the list of legal persons, entities or bodies set out in Annex IV to Decision 2014/512/CFSP, namely the list of persons, entities and bodies supporting Russia’s military and industrial complex in its war of aggression against Ukraine, on whom and on which tighter export restrictions are imposed regarding dual-use goods and technology, as well as goods and technology which might contribute to the technological enhancement of Russia’s defence and security sector. Among the entities Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 includes on that list are certain entities in third countries other than Russia that indirectly contribute to Russia’s military and technological enhancement thereby enabling the circumvention of export restrictions, including those on computer numerical controlled (CNC) machine tools, microelectronics, components for unmanned aerial vehicles, microelectronic products, maritime equipment, and components for other vehicles and machinery.
(5) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 considers it appropriate to expand the list of items which might contribute to Russia’s military and technological enhancement or to the development of its defence and security sector, by listing items which have been used by Russia in its war of aggression against Ukraine and items which contribute to the development or production of its military systems, including laboratory glassware, certain high performance lubricants and their additives, and energetic materials.
(6) Additionally, Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 considers it appropriate to introduce further restrictions on imports of goods which generate significant revenues for Russia, thereby enabling the continuation of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, including restrictions on certain raw materials, metals, certain minerals, on scrap of steel and other metals, on chemicals, on articles of vulcanised rubber and on tanned furskins.
(7) In order to minimise the risk of circumvention of restrictive measures, Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 considers it appropriate to further extend the list of goods and technology subject to the prohibition on transit via the territory of Russia.
(8) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 considers it appropriate to impose further restrictions on exports of goods which might contribute to the enhancement of Russian industrial capacities, such as chemicals, rubber and articles of vulcanised rubber, articles of steel, tools for metal production and industrial tractors.
(9) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 expands the existing broadcasting prohibition to also restrict broadcasting and the facilitation of broadcasting in the Union of content of entities which mirror the content of other entities that are already subject to the prohibition, in order to tackle attempts to circumvent the restrictive measure. Consistent with the fundamental rights and freedoms recognised in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in particular with the right to freedom of expression and information, the freedom to conduct a business and the right to property as recognised in Articles 11, 16 and 17 thereof, this measure does not prevent those media outlets which are subject to the broadcasting prohibition and their staff from carrying out other activities in the Union than broadcasting, such as research and interviews. In particular, this measure does not modify the obligation to respect the rights, freedoms and principles referred to in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, including in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and in Member States' constitutions, within their respective fields of application.
(10) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 introduces a prohibition on providing liquified natural gas (LNG) terminal services to Russian entities or to entities owned or controlled by Russian nationals or operators. The relevant contracts for the LNG terminal services concerned are to terminate automatically on 1 January 2027.
(11) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 amends the price cap for Russian crude oil and petroleum products. The Decision also provides that the Council is to be informed as soon as possible of any agreement of the Price Cap Coalition and of G7 discussions, and that the Council is to decide, based on a joint proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the Commission, on the application of the oil price cap, with the result that a full ban on maritime services related to Russian crude oil and petroleum products would enter into force.
(12) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 amends the obligation to provide traceability evidence by requiring importers of polished diamonds, including diamonds polished in third countries, to provide a due-diligence statement confirming that the diamonds were not mined, processed or produced in Russia.
(13) The Government of the Russian Federation has imposed illegitimate so-called ‘temporary management’ on property located on the territory of the Russian Federation, that belongs to foreign persons associated with so-called ‘unfriendly foreign states’, i.e. states which have introduced restrictive measures against Russia. That so-called ‘temporary management’ is tantamount to expropriation. By those means, the Government of the Russian Federation removes from the Russian market the Union competitors of Russian companies, giving the latter an economic advantage over those Union and other foreign competitors, thus strengthening the Russian economy’s resilience to restrictive measures that affect it. In some cases, the so-called ‘temporary management’ is even granted to Russian competitors of Union entities themselves, giving them a direct economic advantage over those Union competitors. To strengthen the framework of restrictive measures by the Union, Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 enables the Council to draw up a list of Russian companies, which are subject to a transaction ban, that benefit from such illegitimate so-called ‘temporary management’, in particular by ‘temporarily’ taking over the management in Russia of the property and entities owned or controlled by entities established in the Union, or by operating in the same market sector as those Union owned or controlled entities. Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 also provides for exceptions.
(14) The Union has taken decisive measures to identify entities that facilitate a continued financial lifeline for Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, whether by connecting to the system for transfer of financial messages (‘SPFS’) of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation or by enabling the circumvention of Union restrictive measures, and to prohibit any transaction between those entities and Union operators. Out of the identified entities, five have taken measures to close loopholes and terminate the relevant illicit activities. Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 therefore removes the listings for those five entities from the relevant Annex to Decision 2014/512/CFSP. In addition, there is evidence that other such entities in third countries continue to enable Russia to carry out illicit activities. Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 therefore identifies four financial entities with a view to prohibiting transactions between them and persons located in the Union by listing the four financial entities in the relevant Annexes to Decision 2014/512/CFSP. Those changes to the listings should also be reflected in the relevant Annexes to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014.
(15) The Central Bank of the Russian Federation is launching the digital rouble, which is expected to become a common method of payment in coming years among Russian companies, individuals, and credit and financial institutions, as well as between them and operators in third countries. Although it is still in a preparatory stage, the digital rouble project is intended, inter alia, to provide a payment system which shields Russian persons from the effect of restrictive measures laid down in Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 and in Council Regulation (EU) No 269/2014 (4). Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 therefore prohibits engaging, directly or indirectly, in any transaction involving central bank digital currencies such as the digital rouble or providing support to the development of such projects. The Decision also provides for a limited period of time to enable the orderly termination of existing relevant contracts.
(16) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 expands the list of crypto-assets the use of which is prohibited in transactions, as those crypto-assets pose a risk of circumventing prohibitions laid down, inter alia, in Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 and Regulation (EU) No 269/2014. The Decision also provides for a limited period of time to enable the orderly termination of existing relevant contracts.
(17) In February 2025, the Russian crypto-exchange Garantex was listed in Regulation (EU) No 269/2014 for providing access for other listed entities to the global financial system. Evidence from civil society investigations shows that those activities of Garantex have been transferred to other entities established in Russia, in order to bypass Union restrictive measures. Any further listing of individual crypto-asset service providers or of decentralised platforms allowing the exchange or transfer of crypto-assets is therefore likely to result in the setting-up of new ones to circumvent those listings. In order to ensure that Union restrictive measures achieve their intended effects, Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 prohibits engaging with any crypto-asset service provider that is established in Russia, and making use of any platform that is established in Russia, which facilitates the transfer and exchange of crypto-assets.
(18) Since restrictive measures imposed by the Union and partner counties significantly limit the ability of Russia to access international markets and procure military equipment, as well as the possibility for listed persons to carry out financial transactions, new circumvention mechanisms have emerged. Such mechanisms include the offering by operators outside the financial sector of access to payments from third countries through legal persons under their control or through complicit intermediaries, as well as the activities of operators who offer services to enable access to schemes that make it possible to carry out international transactions without cross-border payments, instead using alternatives such as netting, set-off, reconciliation or settlement. With a view to ensuring that such circumvention practices are not effective, it should be prohibited to carry out any transaction with operators that are identified as offering services to enable international transactions that circumvent restrictive measures. It is appropriate to clarify that, by their nature, derogations granted in Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 or in Regulation (EU) No 269/2014 cannot constitute a circumvention of the prohibitions contained in those legal acts. Therefore, transactions carried out in compliance with those exceptions and derogations do not constitute international transactions that circumvent restrictive measures.
(19) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 adds 20 credit or financial institutions to the list of legal persons, entities or bodies subject to a transaction ban. The transaction ban applies to certain Russian credit or financial institutions or other entities, including those subscribing to financial messaging services, or to Russian subsidiaries of third-country credit or financial institutions, which are relevant for the Russian financial and banking system, and are either large or important regional banks, which consequently facilitate regional and federal finances and business, or banks which facilitate cross-border payments, thereby bolstering the Russian economy and its industry, or banks which undermine the territorial integrity of Ukraine by operating in the occupied territories of Ukraine, or by providing financial services over the occupied territories of Ukraine, or banks which offer financial services to military personnel in the Russian armed forces, or banks which are already the subject of restrictive measures imposed by the Union or by partner countries. In addition, Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 amends an exemption that is necessary for the reception of payments due and the fulfilment of prior obligations by the legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in the relevant Annex to Decision 2014/512/CFSP. Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 also adds an exemption for the payment of reasonable professional fees or the reimbursement of incurred expenses associated with the provision of legal services, as well as an exemption related to the needs of state-funded intermediate organisations for the foreign cultural policy of the Member States in Russia.
(20) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 imposes additional restrictions on the provision to the Government of Russia and to legal persons, entities or bodies established in Russia of services that contribute to enhancing Russia’s technological capabilities, in particular the provision of managed security services.
(21) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 introduces an exemption from the requirement for prior authorisation for services provided to the Government of Russia which are not already subject to the restrictive measures set out in Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, where those services are strictly necessary for the functioning of a consular or diplomatic representation of Russia located in a Member State.
(22) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 broadens the existing prohibition on the acceptance of financing, donations or any other economic benefits or support from Russia, whether directly or indirectly, by extending it to public and private research institutions, universities, higher education establishments, research and technology organisations, non-governmental organisations, public bodies and agencies, to undertakings and other entities in the industrial and commercial sectors, including micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises, that carry out research and innovation action, as well as to natural persons associated with such legal persons, entities or bodies. Accepting Russian public funding can result in providing direct or indirect support to Russian natural or legal persons, entities or bodies due to the related transfer of knowledge, access to infrastructure, training and other activities carried out in the context of research and innovation. Furthermore, existing programmes might envisage research stays in Russia. Those activities can be used for influence campaigns and the promotion of disinformation aimed at undermining the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, and for promoting pro-Russian propaganda aimed at justifying and supporting Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine. It is thus appropriate that funding from Russia and its proxies to actors in the Union carrying out research and innovation action be prohibited.
(23) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 clarifies that reporting obligations concerning information which would facilitate the implementation of Decision 2014/512/CFSP and Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 should encompass the duty to report about persons that engage in attempts at circumvention schemes, or on transactions deemed suspicious.
(24) Article 248.1 and Article 248.2 of the Arbitration Procedure Code of the Russian Federation enable persons to lodge a claim before certain Russian courts, which then assert jurisdiction over disputes against Union companies concerning contracts affected by Union restrictive measures, although that competence ought to be allocated to non-Russian courts or arbitral tribunals. Under those provisions, Russian courts are able to impose significant fines on Union companies that do not accept their assertion of jurisdiction. It is therefore appropriate to enable Union courts to issue orders not to initiate or to discontinue legal proceedings, and to impose penalties, upon request of Union persons. Such penalties must be appropriate to ensure deterrent effect. The forum necessitatis provisions of Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 should be amended accordingly.
(25) Natural and legal persons, entities or bodies, or persons, entities or bodies owned or controlled by them, might seek to enforce, in third countries other than Russia, Russian court and administrative decisions. Such attempts can be based on claims relating to contracts affected by restrictive measures or illegal expropriations or so-called ‘temporary management’ imposed by the Government of the Russian Federation. It is therefore appropriate to extend the possibility for Union natural or legal persons to claim damages from persons, entities and bodies who seek, in third countries other than Russia, the enforcement of those Russian decisions, or who cooperate in their enforcement, as well as from persons, entities or bodies that are owned or controlled by them. It is also appropriate to enable the Council to impose a transaction ban on natural or legal persons, entities or bodies who seek the enforcement, or who cooperate in the enforcement, of Russian decisions based on claims relating to contracts affected by restrictive measures, or of illegal expropriations and so-called ‘temporary management’ imposed by the Russian Government, as well as a transaction ban on natural or legal persons, entities or bodies that own or control those persons, entities or bodies.
(26) The Union has imposed significant restrictive measures in the maritime sector vis-à-vis Russia, in particular regarding the fleet of tanker vessels, known as the ‘shadow fleet’, engaged in irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). In order to ensure that vessels sold by Union operators do not join or support the shadow fleet, the conditions applying to sales of tanker vessels to operators in third countries should be tightened by providing for specific due diligence and a mandatory clause in tanker vessel sales agreements in accordance with which the vessels cannot be sold on or transferred to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia, or for use in Russia. Such due diligence should be proportionate, and include a screening of all parties to the transaction. In the specific context of tanker vessel sales, where a Union seller has carried out appropriate due diligence and obtained the required contractual commitments, the Union seller should not be held liable for a subsequent breach of those commitments by the buyer, provided the Union seller acted in good faith and did not possess information suggesting an intent to circumvent the measures. The liability for such a breach should rest with the third-country party that fails to respect the contractual prohibition.
(27) Noting that many vessels listed by the Council as belonging to the shadow fleet have reached an age at which they ought to be recycled, and in order to encourage their recycling rather than continued operations, and to enable Union operators to be involved in recycling-related activities, a new derogation from the Union restrictive measures should facilitate the recycling of such vessels.
(28) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 introduces new restrictions on ice-breaker vessels operating in Russia, because those vessels are instrumental in supporting oil and gas exports from northernmost Russia. In addition, the provision of services to Russian flagged, owned or managed LNG tankers should be restricted.
(29) At present, claims against Union companies complying with restrictive measures can be brought by legal persons, entities or bodies other than Russian legal persons, entities or bodies, by persons other than those listed in Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, or by persons other than those acting on their behalf or at their direction, for instance when Union operators discontinue their supply to natural and legal persons in third countries other than Russia of products the export of which to Russia is prohibited. Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 therefore strengthens the Union’s framework of restrictive measures by extending the scope of the prohibition on the satisfaction of such claims in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by Union restrictive measures. The scope of the prohibition in Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 on the satisfaction of such claims should therefore also be extended to cover claims brought by natural or legal persons, entities or bodies established in third countries other than Russia and partner countries listed in the relevant annex, where those natural or legal persons, entities or bodies are selling, supplying, transferring or exporting goods, technology or services the sale, supply, transfer or export of which is prohibited under Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, whether or not the goods, technology or services originate in the Union.
(30) The wording ‘any other Russian person, entity or body’ in Article 11(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 includes the Russian Federation. Where the Russian Federation brings a claim in Russian or other third country courts in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under Regulations (EU) No 833/2014 and (EU) No 269/2014, the Russian Federation acts in a commercial capacity or waives its immunity from jurisdiction and enforcement, including for potential counterclaims, as the case may be. In such cases, by virtue of Article 11a of Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, Union persons should be able to recover damages in proceedings before Member States’ courts, provided that the person concerned does not otherwise have effective access to remedies under the relevant jurisdiction.
(31) Russia has adopted legislation, in particular the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation No 122 of 15 February 2024, and the Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation No 1767 of 18 October 2021 as amended by Government Resolution No 380 of 27 March 2024, which allows the Russian Government to decide, at the request of a Russian legal entity of which the Russian State, a Russian legal entity, or a Russian citizen owns directly or indirectly more than 75 % of the share capital, on the use of an invention, a utility model or an industrial design without the consent of the right holder, for which only a symbolic compensation is required to be paid into a special rouble bank account. The legislation targets, in particular, rightholders owned or controlled by natural persons in, and by legal persons incorporated under the laws of, countries that impose restrictive measures on Russia for its war of aggression against Ukraine, including persons and companies in Member States. The legislation effectively deprives Union right holders of legitimate protection for their intellectual property rights and trade secrets in Russia, thereby giving an economic advantage to Russian-owned companies, and ultimately bolsters Russian industry. Moreover, the legislation directly contributes to increasing the resilience of Russia’s economy and its war effort, particularly when the inventions, utility models or industrial designs in question are used in the area of defence or for dual-use goods. It is therefore appropriate to impose a transaction ban on entities incorporated under Russian law that use without their consent the intellectual property rights of subsidiaries incorporated in Russia of Union companies. In order to facilitate identifying entities using the intellectual property rights and trade secrets of Union right holders without their consent in that way, it is necessary for the affected Union right holders to inform the respective Member State of such use.
(32) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 amends the prior notification mechanism for Russian diplomats and consular officers, as well as for members of the administrative and technical staff or of the service staff of diplomatic missions or consular posts of Russia, and for their family members, when travelling to a Member State other than that of their accreditation or residence.
(33) Preventing and countering the circumvention of the Union’s restrictive measures in and by third countries remains a priority. Significant efforts have been undertaken to prevent the re-export to Russia of Union-origin dual-use goods and technology, including the Common High Priority (CHP) items listed in the relevant Annexes to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014. The Commission monitors trade flows of those items, and the International Special Envoy for the Implementation of EU Sanctions engages with third countries where suspicious trade flows have been identified.
(34) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 adds two combined nomenclature (CN) codes and the Kyrgyz Republic to the list of goods and technology and countries set out in the relevant Annex to Decision 2014/512/CFSP. Based on available trade data for the first ten months of 2025, imports of CHP items from the Union to the Kyrgyz Republic were almost 800 % higher than before Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine. For the same period, exports of CHP items from the Kyrgyz Republic to Russia were 1 200 % higher than before Russia’s war of aggression. The listings concern machining centres for working metal (CN code 8457 10 ) and machines for the reception, conversion and transmission or regeneration of voice, images or other data, including switching and routing apparatus (CN code 8517 62 ). Those CN codes are listed in the relevant annexes to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, as the goods are capable of being used to contribute to Russia’s military and technological enhancement or to the development of Russia’s defence and security sectors. Machining centres are widely used in defence manufacturing, as they can produce high-precision metal components essential for military production. Machines for the transmission of voice and data are used, inter alia, for field communication networks and for drone telemetry. The high level of imports of such items into the Kyrgyz Republic from the Union compared with pre-war figures demonstrates a continuing and particularly high risk of circumvention, through the subsequent sale, supply, transfer or export of the goods from the Kyrgyz Republic to Russia.
(35) The International Special Envoy for the Implementation of EU Sanctions has actively engaged with the Kyrgyz Republic, and the Union has also engaged in technical discussions with the Kyrgyz authorities. Despite multiple requests and despite various exchanges, the Kyrgyz Republic has neither adopted nor enforced measures sufficient to ensure that Union-origin CHP items are not re-exported to Russia, thus increasing significantly the risk that its jurisdiction is used to circumvent the Union’s restrictive measures. Therefore, the Kyrgyz Republic should be identified as a jurisdiction where the risk of circumvention is systematic and persistent, with authorities failing to prevent the sale, supply, transfer, or export to Russia of goods and technology as listed in Annex XXXIII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, exported from the Union.
(36) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 extends the list of partner countries for importation of petroleum products.
(37) Decision (CFSP) 2026/508 lists two ports and locks in Russia, and one port and lock in a third country other than Russia that are used for the circumvention of the oil price cap by vessels practicing irregular and high-risk shipping practices. This concerns the Karimun Oil Terminal in Indonesia.
(38) These measures fall within the scope of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and therefore, in particular with a view to ensuring their uniform application in all Member States, regulatory action at the level of the Union is necessary.
(39) Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 should therefore be amended accordingly,

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:

Article 1

Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) Article 1 is amended as follows: (a) point (i) of paragraph (zj) is replaced by the following: ‘(i) travel agency and tour operator services, including services rendered for passenger travel by travel agencies and tour operators, and similar services; travel information, advice and planning services; services related to the arrangement of tours, accommodation, passenger and baggage transportation; ticket issuance services;’ ; (b) the following points are added: ‘(zk) “LNG terminal services” means services provided by liquified natural gas (LNG) system operators to customers, in particular offloading, storage, sending out, berthing (loading and unloading), regassification, backhaul liquefaction, truck loading, bunkering of LNG falling under CN code 2711 11 00 , and including ancillary services and temporary storage necessary for the re-gasification process and subsequent delivery to the transmission system; (zl) “managed security service” means a managed security service as defined in point (14a) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*1). (*1) Regulation (EU) 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on ENISA (the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity) and on information and communications technology cybersecurity certification and repealing Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 (Cybersecurity Act) (OJ L 151 7.6.2019, p. 15, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2019/881/oj).’;"
(2) Article 2 is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 4, point (h) is replaced by the following: ‘(h) ensuring cyber security and information security for legal persons, entities and bodies in Russia which are owned or solely or jointly controlled by a legal person, entity or body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State;’ ; (b) in paragraph 7, point (iii) is replaced by the following: ‘(iii) the sale, supply, transfer or export of goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the provision of related technical or financial assistance is intended for the energy sector, unless such a sale, supply, transfer or export or the related technical or financial assistance is allowed under the exceptions referred to in paragraphs 3 to 6 of Article 3 and paragraph 4a of Article 3k.’ ;
(3) Article 2a is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 4, point (h) is replaced by the following: ‘(h) ensuring cyber-security and information security for legal persons, entities and bodies in Russia which are owned or solely or jointly controlled by a legal person, entity or body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State;’ ; (b) in paragraph 7, point (iii) is replaced by the following: ‘(iii) the sale, supply, transfer or export of goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the provision of related technical or financial assistance is intended for the energy sector, unless such a sale, supply, transfer or export or the related technical or financial assistance is allowed under the exceptions referred to in paragraphs 3 to 6 of Article 3 and paragraph 4a of Article 3k.’ ;
(4) in Article 2f, the following paragraph is inserted: ‘1a. The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall also apply to online content of a legal person, entity or body that operates as a mirror entity of a legal person, entity or body referred to in paragraph 1, where at least two of the following criteria are met: (a) substantially identical content or feeds; (b) continuity of branding, design or user interface; (c) overlapping ownership, control or management; (d) redirection or migration of users from a legal person, entity or body referred to in paragraph 1; (e) continuity of technical infrastructure, including use of the same code base, domains or applications.’ ;
(5) Article 3 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 is deleted; (b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: ‘2. It shall be prohibited to: (a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the software referred to in paragraph 1a and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of that software, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia, or for use in Russia; (b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the software referred to in paragraph 1a for any sale, supply, transfer or export of that software, or for the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia, or for use in Russia; (c) sell, license or transfer in any other way intellectual property rights or trade secrets as well as grant rights to access or re-use any material or information protected by means of intellectual property rights or constituting trade secrets related to the software referred to in paragraph 1a and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of that software, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia.’ ; (c) the introductory wording of paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: ‘3. The prohibitions in paragraph 2 shall not apply to the sale, supply, transfer or export of software, or to the provision of technical or financial assistance, necessary for:’ ; (d) paragraph 3a is deleted; (e) the introductory wording of paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: ‘6. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1a and 2, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, the sale, supply, transfer or export and the provision of technical or financial assistance, after having determined that:’ ;
(6) in paragraph 5a of Article 3ea, point (b) is replaced by the following: ‘(b) the access is necessary for operations strictly necessary for the completion of renewable energy projects in the Union.’ ;
(7) Article 3i is amended as follows: (a) the following paragraphs are inserted: ‘3be. With regard to goods falling under CN codes 2501, 2517, 2519, 2522, 2530, 2601, 2619, 2620, 2621, 2804 61 , 2804 69 , 2815, 2816, 2825 20 , 2833, 2849, 2910, 2916, 2926, 4016, 4302, 7110 11 , 7110 19 , 7110 31 , 7110 39 , 7110 41 , 7110 49 , 7204, 7401, 7402, 7403 (except 7403 19 ), 7404, 7406, 7503, 7504, 7505, 7602, 7603, 7610, 7612, 8102, 8104 and 8105, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the execution until 25 July 2026 of contracts concluded before 24 April 2026, or of ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts. 3bf. With regard to goods falling under CN code 7403 19 , the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the execution until 25 January 2027 of contracts concluded before 24 April 2026, or of ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts.’ ; (b) paragraphs 3cc and 3cd are deleted; (c) paragraph 3e is replaced by the following: ‘3e. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the competent authorities may authorise the purchase, import or transfer of goods falling under CN codes 7007, 7019, 8424 10 00 , 8479, 8481, 8483, 8487, 8504, 8516 29 91 , 8517, 8525, 8531, 8536, 8537, 8538, 8539, 8542, 8543, and 8603, as listed in Annex XXI, or the provision of related technical and financial assistance, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, after having determined that to do so is necessary for the operation, maintenance or repair of Budapest metro line 3 cars delivered in 2018, in execution of the service life guarantee provided by Metrowagonmash prior to 24 June 2023.’ ; (d) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘3h. As of 24 April 2026, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the import, purchase or transport, or to related technical or financial assistance, necessary for the import into the Union, of 688 000 metric tonnes of goods falling under CN code 2814 between 24 April of a given year and 23 April of the year thereafter.’ ; (e) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘3i. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the competent authorities may authorise the purchase, import or transfer until 25 April 2031 of goods falling under CN codes 7007, 7019, 8471, 8479, 8481, 8482, 8483, 8487, 8504, 8517, 8523, 8525, 8531, 8536, 8537, 8538, 8539, 8542, 8543, 8603, 9030, 9031, 9032 and 9405, as listed in Annex XXI, or the provision of related technical and financial assistance, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, after having determined that to do so is necessary for the safety of the operation, maintenance or repair of Sofia metro line 1, 2 and 4 cars, produced and delivered until 2017.’ ; (f) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: ‘5. The import volume quotas set out in paragraphs 3cg, 3ch, 3h and 4 of this Article shall be managed by the Commission and the Member States in accordance with the management system for tariff-rate quotas provided for in Articles 49 to 54 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447.’ ; (g) paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: ‘6. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under paragraph 3ab, 3c, 3ce, 3e, 3g or 3i within two weeks of the authorisation.’ ;
(8) Article 3k is amended as follows: (a) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘1b. Without prejudice to paragraph 1, it shall be prohibited to sell, supply, transfer or export, directly or indirectly goods falling under CN codes 7304 11 00 , 7304 19 10 , 7304 19 30 , 7304 19 90 , 7304 22 00 , 7304 23 00 , 7304 29 10 , 7304 29 30 , 7304 29 90 , 7305 11 00 , 7305 12 00 , 7305 19 00 , 7305 20 00 , 7306 11 , 7306 19 , 7306 21 00 , 7306 29 00 , 8207 13 00 , 8207 19 10 , 8413 50 , 8413 60 , 8413 82 00 , 8413 92 00 , 8430 49 00 , 8431 39 00 , 8431 43 00 , 8431 49 , 8705 20 00 , 8905 20 00 or 8905 90 10 , as listed in Annex XXIII, to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia, including its Exclusive Economic Zone and Continental Shelf, or for use in Russia, including its Exclusive Economic Zone and Continental Shelf.’ ; (b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: ‘2. It shall be prohibited to: (a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraphs 1 and 1b and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of those goods and technology, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia; (b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraphs 1 and 1b for any sale, supply, transfer or export of those goods and technology, or for the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia, or for use in Russia; (c) sell, license or transfer in any other way intellectual property rights or trade secrets as well as grant rights to access or re-use any material or information protected by means of intellectual property rights or constituting trade secrets related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraphs 1 and 1b and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of those goods and technology, directly or indirectly to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia.’ ; (c) paragraphs 3ah, 3ai and 3aj are deleted; (d) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘3al. With regard to the goods falling under the CN codes listed in Annex XXIIIH, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the execution until 25 July 2026 of contracts concluded before 24 April 2026, or of ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts.’ ; (e) paragraph 4a is replaced by the following: ‘4a. The prohibitions in paragraphs 1, 1a, 1b and 2 shall not apply to the sale, supply, transfer or export of the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 or to the related provision of technical and financial assistance, for non-military use and for a non-military end-user, intended for health emergencies, the urgent prevention or mitigation of an event likely to have a serious and significant impact on human health and safety or the environment, or as a response to natural disasters.’ ; (f) in paragraph 5a, point (f) is replaced by the following: ‘(f) goods falling under CN code 3916 20 when strictly necessary for the sale of PVC flooring or windows.’ ; (g) in paragraph 5a, the following point is added: ‘(g) goods falling under CN codes 3920431099 , 3925 90 10 , 3925908000 or 8302 41 50 strictly necessary for the sale of windows.’ ; (h) paragraph 5aa is replaced by the following: ‘5aa. The competent authorities of the Member States may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, the sale, supply, transfer or export of goods falling under CN codes 2835 22 00 , 2920 90 , 3917 10 and 3920 62 , or the provision of related technical or financial assistance, after having determined that such goods are sold, supplied, transferred or exported strictly for the production of food items for human consumption in Russia.’ ; (i) paragraph 5b is replaced by the following: ‘5b. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 1b and 2, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, the sale, supply, transfer or export of the goods falling under CN chapters 72, 84, 85 and 90 as listed in Annex XXIII, or related technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance, after having determined that it is strictly necessary for the production of titanium goods required in the aeronautic industry, for which no alternative supply is available.’ ; (j) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘5j. By way of derogation from paragraph 1a, the competent authorities may authorise the transit via the territory of Russia of goods and technology falling under CN code 3403 19 80 as listed in Annex XXXVII exported from Hungary, after having determined that such goods or technology are destined for Azerbaijan.’ ; (k) paragraph 7 is replaced by the following: ‘7. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under paragraph 5, 5a, 5aa, 5b, 5c, 5d, 5g, 5h, 5i or 5j within two weeks of the authorisation.’ ;
(9) Article 3m is amended as follows: (a) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘2a. As of 1 January 2027, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply to natural gas condensate of subheading CN 2709 00 10 from liquefied natural gas production plants.’ ; (b) paragraphs 11 and 12 are deleted;
(10) Article 3n is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: (i) points (b) and (c) are deleted; (ii) at the end of the paragraph, the following text is added as an unnumbered subparagraph which is not part of point (d): ‘The Council, upon a joint proposal from the High Representative and the Commission, shall decide, without undue delay on the basis of full coordination and consideration of discussions within the G7 and the Price Cap Coalition on the application of the exception to the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 4 in respect of crude oil or petroleum products traded at prices below the price cap.’; (b) the following paragraphs are added: ‘6b. The prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 4 shall not apply: (a) to crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV where those goods originate in a third country and are only being loaded in, departing from or transiting through Russia, provided that both the origin and the owner of those goods are non-Russian; (b) to the transport, or to technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance related to such transport, of the products mentioned in Annex XXIX to the third countries mentioned therein, for the duration specified in that Annex. 6c. As of 1 January 2027, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 4 shall apply to natural gas condensate of subheading CN 2709 00 10 from liquefied natural gas production plants.’ ; (c) paragraphs 12 and 13 are deleted;
(11) Article 3p is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 8 is replaced by the following: ‘8. For the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, goods falling under CN codes 7102 31 00 and 7102 10 00 that are imported into the Union shall be submitted for verification without delay, together with a certificate pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 (*2) in which the country of mining origin or the countries of mining origin are clearly stated, to the authority specified in Annex XXXVIIIB. The Member State where those goods are brought into the customs territory of the Union shall ensure their submission to the authority specified in Annex XXXVIIIB. Customs transit may be granted to that effect. If such customs transit is granted, the verification provided for in this paragraph shall be suspended until the arrival of those goods at the authority specified in Annex XXXVIIIB. The importer shall be responsible for the proper movement of those goods and the costs of such movement. A submission to that authority shall not be necessary provided that the goods had previously undergone the verification procedure provided for in this paragraph and provided that that is proven by traceability evidence, including a corresponding certificate certifying that the diamonds are not mined, processed or produced in Russia, as provided for in paragraph 10. (*2) Council Regulation (EC) No 2368/2002 of 20 December 2002 implementing the Kimberley Process certification scheme for the international trade in rough diamonds (OJ L 358, 31.12.2002, p. 28, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2002/2368/oj)’;" (b) paragraph 10 is replaced by the following: ‘10. For the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4, at the moment of importation, importers shall provide evidence of the country of origin of the diamonds or products incorporating diamonds used as inputs for the processing of the product in a third country. As of 1 March 2025, the traceability evidence for products listed in Part A of Annex XXXVIIIA falling under CN codes 7102 10 00 and 7102 31 00 shall include a corresponding certificate certifying that the diamonds are not mined, processed or produced in Russia. With regard to products falling under CN code 7102 39 00 , as listed in Part A of Annex XXXVIIIA, the mandatory use of traceability evidence, including a due-diligence statement confirming that the diamonds are not mined, processed or produced in Russia, shall apply as from 24 April 2026.’ ;
(12) Article 3q is replaced by the following: ‘Article 3q 1. It shall be prohibited for any national of a Member State, natural person residing in a Member State, and any legal person, entity or body which is established in the Union to sell, or otherwise transfer ownership, directly or indirectly, of tanker vessels for the transport of crude oil or petroleum products listed in Annex XXV, falling under HS code ex 8901 20 , whether or not originating in the Union, to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia. 2. Without prejudice to the prohibition in paragraph 1, any national of a Member State, any natural person residing in a Member State, and any legal person, entity or body which is established in the Union that sells or otherwise transfers the ownership, to persons, entities and bodies in any third country, directly or indirectly, of tanker vessels for the transport of crude oil or petroleum products listed in Annex XXV, falling under HS code ex 8901 20 , whether or not those products originate in the Union, shall: (a) take appropriate steps, proportionately to their nature and size, to identify and assess the risks of retransfer to Russia or for use in Russia, and ensure that those risk assessments are documented and kept up-to-date; (b) implement appropriate policies, controls and procedures, proportionately to their nature and size, to mitigate and manage effectively the risks of retransfer to Russia or for use in Russia. 3. Natural and legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in paragraph 2 acquiring the tanker vessels shall provide all the information necessary for the completion of the steps referred to in paragraph 2, point (a). 4. Any sale or other arrangement entailing a transfer of ownership by a national of a Member State, a natural person residing in a Member State, or a legal person, entity or body which is established in the Union to any third country of tanker vessels for the transport of crude oil or petroleum products listed in Annex XXV, falling under HS code ex 8901 20 , with the exception of a sale or other transfer of ownership prohibited under paragraph 1, shall be notified immediately to the competent authorities of the Member State where the owner of the vessel is a citizen, a resident or is established. The notification to the competent authority shall contain at least the following information: the identities of the seller and the purchaser and, where applicable, the incorporation documents of the seller and the purchaser including the shareholding and management; the IMO ship identification number of the vessel; and the Call Sign of the vessel. 5. Any sale or other arrangement entailing a transfer of ownership by a national of a Member State, by a natural person residing in a Member State or by a legal person, entity or body which is established in the Union to any third country of a tanker vessel for the transport of crude oil or petroleum products listed in Annex XXV, falling under HS code ex 8901 20 shall contain a written contractual prohibition on any further resale or transfer of the vessel to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia. 6. The sale or other arrangement referred to in paragraph 5 shall also include written contractual provisions by which the third-country party acquiring the vessel: (i) commits to mirroring the prohibition in paragraph 5 in any further resale or transfer that it may undertake; and (ii) obliges, in any further resale or transfer, the acquirer of the vessel to include written contractual provisions equivalent to those required by paragraph 5 and this paragraph. 7. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any notification under paragraph 4, within two weeks of the notification.’ ;
(13) the following article is inserted: ‘Article 3rb From 1 January 2027, it shall be prohibited to provide, directly or indirectly, LNG terminal services to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or to any legal person, entity or body established in the Union which is more than 50 % owned, or which is controlled, by a Russian citizen or by a legal person, entity or body in Russia. It shall be prohibited to maintain contracts concerning prohibited LNG services pursuant to this Article after 1 January 2027.’ ;
(14) Article 3s is amended as follows: (a) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘3a. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities of a Member State may authorise the carrying out of the operations referred to in points (a) to (g) of paragraph 1, in respect of a vessel listed in Annex XLII after having determined that: (a) the vessel is intended to be recycled; and (b) the operations in question are necessary for the vessel to proceed to her recycling facility, for any relevant activities of the recycling facility in relation to the vessel, or for payments related to the recycling.’ ; (b) paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: ‘5. The Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under paragraphs 3a and 4 within two weeks of the authorisation.’ ;
(15) the following article is inserted: ‘Article 3sa 1. It shall be prohibited to provide, directly or indirectly, technical assistance, brokering services or financing or financial assistance, related to any ice-breaker vessel falling under CN code ex 8906 90 or to any liquified natural gas (LNG) tanker vessel falling under CN code ex 8901 20 , where such vessel is registered under the flag of Russia, is certified by the Russian Maritime Register of Shipping, is owned or managed by any Russian natural or legal person, entity or body, is operating in Russia, or is for use in Russia. 2. Paragraph 1 shall apply only from 25 April 2026 to LNG tanker vessels falling under CN code ex 8901 20 registered under the flag of Russia, certified by the Russian Maritime Register of Shipping, or owned or managed by any Russian natural or legal person, entity or body. 3. Paragraph 1 shall apply only from 1 January 2027 to LNG tanker vessels falling under CN code ex 8901 20 operating in Russia or for use in Russia, other than those registered under the flag of Russia, certified by the Russian Maritime Register of Shipping, or owned or managed by any Russian natural or legal person, entity or body. 4. Paragraph 1 shall not apply in the case of a vessel in need of assistance seeking a place of refuge, of an emergency port call for reasons of maritime safety, or for saving life at sea or for the urgent prevention or mitigation of an event likely to have a serious and significant impact on human health and safety or the environment, or as a response to natural disasters.’ ;
(16) Article 4 is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 2, point (a), the following subpoint is added: ‘(iii) the military forensic analysis of items originating in Russia recovered from Ukraine; or’ ; (b) paragraph 3 is deleted; (c) the following paragraphs are inserted: ‘3a. The prohibitions in paragraph 1 shall not apply to the sale, supply, transfer or export of the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1b of Article 3k, or to the provision of related financing or financial assistance, technical assistance, brokering services or other services, for non-military use and for a non-military end-user, intended for health emergencies, the urgent prevention or mitigation of an event likely to have a serious and significant impact on human health and safety or the environment, or as a response to natural disasters. 3b. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities may authorise, under the conditions they deem appropriate, the sale, supply, transfer or export of the goods and technology listed in paragraph 1b of Article 3k, or the provision of related financing or financial assistance, technical assistance, brokering services or other services, after having determined that such goods or technology or the provision of related financing or financial assistance, technical assistance, brokering services or other services are necessary for: (a) medical or pharmaceutical purposes, or for humanitarian purposes, such as delivering or facilitating the delivery of assistance, including medical supplies, food, or the transfer of humanitarian workers and related assistance or for evacuations; (b) the exclusive use and under the full control of the authorising Member State and in order to fulfil its maintenance obligations in areas which are under a long-term lease agreement between that Member State and the Russian Federation; (c) the establishment, operation, maintenance, fuel supply and retreatment and safety of civil nuclear capabilities, and the continuation of design, construction and commissioning required for the completion of civil nuclear facilities, the supply of precursor material for the production of medical radioisotopes and similar medical applications, or critical technology for environmental radiation monitoring, as well as for civil nuclear cooperation, in particular in the field of research and development; or (d) the production of titanium goods required in the aeronautic industry, for which no alternative supply is available.’ ; (d) paragraph 4 is deleted; (e) the following paragraph is added: ‘5. Paragraphs 3a and 3b are without prejudice to the exemptions and derogations laid out in Article 3k, and in particular paragraphs 4a, 5 and 5b thereof.’ ;
(17) Article 5ad is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 1, the following point is added: ‘(d) is not a credit or financial institution or an entity providing crypto-asset services or payment services and offers services that enable the performance of international transactions, including through payments from accounts in countries other than Russia, through netting, through set-off, through reconciliation or through settlement, that frustrate the purpose of the prohibitions in this Regulation or in Regulation (EU) No 269/2014, as listed in Part D of Annex XLV to this Regulation.’ ; (b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: ‘2. The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall also apply with respect to: (a) a legal person, entity or body acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, an entity referred to in points (a), (b), (c) or (d) of paragraph 1; (b) an entity providing crypto-asset services or payment services that operates as a mirror or successor entity of an entity referred to in points (a) or (b) of paragraph 1; (c) an entity offering enabling services equivalent to those provided by the entities referred to in point (d) of paragraph 1.’ ; (c) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘2b. For the purposes of paragraph 2, point (c), an equivalent enabling service is a service that meets the following criteria: (a) the service is offered by an entity that is not a credit institution or a financial institution or an entity providing crypto-asset services or payment services; (b) the service is addressed to Russian customers and has the stated intent to enable cross-border transactions, including through payments from accounts in countries other than Russia, through netting, through set-off, through reconciliation or through settlement; (c) the service does not exclude any of the transactions prohibited under this Regulation or Regulation (EU) No 269/2014.’ ;
(18) Article 5ae is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1, point (c) is replaced by the following: ‘(c) for the maritime transport of crude oil or petroleum products, as listed in Annex XXV, or of mineral products, that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia by vessels practicing irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33);’ ; (b) in paragraph 3, the following point is added: ‘(h) to transactions with the port listed under entry number 7 in Part A of Annex XLVII for the purchase, import or transfer of goods falling under CN codes 7202 12 10 and 7224 90 , unless otherwise prohibited by this Regulation.’ ;
(19) the following articles are inserted: ‘Article 5ai 1. It shall be prohibited to engage, directly or indirectly, in any transaction with a legal person, entity or body referred to in point (a), (b) or (c) of Article 11(1) of this Regulation that benefitted, including by operating in the same market sector, from a decision pursuant to the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation No 302 of 25 April 2023 as subsequently amended, pursuant to Federal Law No 470-FZ of 4 August 2023 as subsequently amended, or pursuant to related or equivalent Russian legislation, as listed in Annex LIV. 2. Unless they are otherwise prohibited, the prohibition in paragraph 1 shall not apply to transactions that are: (a) necessary for the purchase, import or transport of pharmaceutical, medical or agricultural and food products, including wheat and fertilisers, the purchase, import and transport of which is allowed under this Regulation; (b) strictly necessary to ensure access to judicial, administrative or arbitral proceedings in a Member State, as well as for the recognition or enforcement of a judgment or an arbitration award rendered in a Member State, provided that such transactions are consistent with the objectives of this Regulation and those of Regulation (EU) No 269/2014; (c) without prejudice to point (b) of this paragraph, strictly necessary to recover damages pursuant to: (i) Article 11a or 11b of this Regulation; or (ii) Article 11a of Regulation (EU) No 269/2014. Article 5aj 1. It shall be prohibited to engage, directly or indirectly, in any transaction with a natural or legal person, entity or body that seeks, or cooperates in, the enforcement outside the Union of judgments satisfying claims referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 11a, or with natural or legal persons, entities or bodies that own or control those legal persons, entities or bodies, with the exception of lawyers and members of the judiciary, as listed in Annex LV, Part A. 2. It shall be prohibited to engage, directly or indirectly, in any transaction with a natural or legal person, entity or body that seeks, or cooperates in, the enforcement outside the Union of decisions referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 11b, or with natural or legal persons, entities or bodies that own or control those legal persons, entities or bodies, with the exception of lawyers and members of the judiciary, as listed in Annex LV, Part B. 3. Unless they are otherwise prohibited, the prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to transactions that are: (a) necessary for the purchase, import or transport of pharmaceutical, medical or agricultural and food products, including wheat and fertilisers, the purchase, import and transport of which is allowed under this Regulation; (b) strictly necessary to ensure access to judicial, administrative or arbitral proceedings in a Member State, as well as for the recognition or enforcement of a judgment or an arbitration award rendered in a Member State, provided that such transactions are consistent with the objectives of this Regulation and those of Regulation (EU) No 269/2014; (c) without prejudice to point (b) of this paragraph, strictly necessary to recover damages pursuant to: (i) Article 11a or 11b of this Regulation; or (ii) Article 11a of Regulation (EU) No 269/2014.’ ;
(20) Article 5ba is replaced by the following: ‘Article 5ba It shall be prohibited to engage, directly or indirectly, in any transaction involving the crypto-assets or central bank digital currencies listed in Annex LIII, or to provide any support to the development of such crypto-assets or central bank digital currencies.’ ;
(21) the following article is inserted: ‘Article 5bb 1. It shall be prohibited to engage, directly or indirectly, in any transaction with a legal person, entity or body that is an entity providing crypto-assets services or is a platform enabling the exchange or transfer of crypto-assets and is established in Russia. 2. The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall not apply to transactions: (a) that are necessary for the functioning of diplomatic and consular representations of the Union and of the Member States or of partner countries in Russia, including delegations, embassies and missions, or international organisations in Russia enjoying immunities in accordance with international law; (b) made by nationals of a Member State who are residents of Russia and were so before 24 February 2022. 3. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent authorities may authorise, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, transactions which are strictly necessary for divestment from Russia or for the winding-down of business activities in Russia. 4. The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall apply as of 24 May 2026.’ ;
(22) Article 5h is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 1a, point (f) is replaced by the following: ‘(f) necessary for the reception of payments due by the legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in Annex XIV pursuant to contracts and obligations performed before 24 April 2026’ ; (b) in paragraph 1a, the following points are added: ‘(i) strictly necessary for the payment of reasonable professional fees or the reimbursement of incurred expenses associated with the provision of legal services; (j) that are necessary for the needs of state-funded intermediate organisations for the foreign cultural policy of the Member States in Russia.’ ;
(23) Article 5n is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 1, the following point is added: ‘(i) managed security services.’ ; (b) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘4a. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to the provision, directly or indirectly, of services not covered by paragraphs 1 or 2 to a consular or diplomatic representation of the Russian Federation located in a Member State, where those services are strictly necessary for the functioning of that representation.’ ; (c) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘8d. Paragraph 1, point (i) shall apply from 25 May 2026;’ ;
(24) in Article 5t, paragraph 2, the following points are added: ‘(e) public and private research institutions, universities, higher education establishments, research and technology organisations, non-governmental organisations, public bodies and agencies, as well as undertakings and other entities in the industrial and commercial sectors, including micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises, that carry out research and innovation action, as defined in Regulation (EU) 2021/695 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*3); (f) natural persons associated with the legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in point (e). (*3) Regulation (EU) 2021/695 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 April 2021 establishing Horizon Europe – the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, laying down its rules for participation and dissemination, and repealing Regulations (EU) No 1290/2013 and (EU) No 1291/2013 (OJ L 170, 12.5.2021, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2021/695/oj).’;"
(25) in Article 5q, the introductory wording of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: ‘1. By way of derogation from Articles 2, 2a, 3, 3f and 3k, the competent authorities may authorise the sale, supply, transfer, export or transit through Russia of the goods and technology referred to in those Articles, or the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, or financing or financial assistance, for the operation and maintenance of the Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) pipelines and associated infrastructure necessary for the transport of goods falling under CN 2709 00 originating in Kazakhstan and which are only being loaded in, departing from or transiting through Russia, under such conditions as they deem appropriate, after having determined that:’ ;
(26) the following article is inserted: ‘Article 5sa 1. It shall be prohibited to engage, directly or indirectly, in any transaction with a legal person, entity or body that, pursuant to the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation No 122 of 15 February 2024, the Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation No 1767 of 18 October 2021 as amended by Government Resolution No 380 of 27 March 2024, or pursuant to related or equivalent Russian legislation or pursuant to any injunction, order, relief, judgment or other decision of a Russian court, has used or uses intellectual property rights or trade secrets owned by or licensed to a legal person in Russia that is owned or controlled by a natural person of a Member State or by a legal person incorporated under the law of a Member State without the consent of the right holder, as listed in Annex LVI. 2. Without prejudice to Article 6b of this Regulation, the natural persons of a Member State or the legal persons incorporated under the law of a Member State mentioned in paragraph 1 of this Article shall inform the competent authority of that Member State of any use pursuant to the Russian legislation mentioned in that paragraph and without the right holder’s consent of any of the intellectual property rights or trade secrets owned by or licensed to the legal persons they own or control in Russia. 3. Member States informed by right holders in accordance with paragraph 2 shall in turn inform the Commission about the use without consent of intellectual property rights or trade secrets.’ ;
(27) Article 5v is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: ‘1. Russian nationals, who are members of the diplomatic or consular personnel of Russia, or members of the administrative and technical staff or of the service staff of diplomatic missions or consular posts of Russia, or their family members, holders of a valid residence permit, including diplomatic identification documents, or a valid visa issued by another State, who intend to travel to or transit through the territory of any Member State, based on that residence permit or visa, shall notify the Member State or Member States concerned by the travel not later than on the last working day in that Member State or those Member States, whichever is the earlier, before the intended date of entry into their territory and, in any case, not later than 24 hours before that intended date of entry.’ ; (b) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘1a. Russian nationals subject to the obligation in paragraph 1 shall carry a copy of the notification and present it, upon request, to the authorities of the Member State or Member States concerned by the travel.’ ;
(28) in Article 11(1), the following point is added: ‘(d) any natural person of a third country who is not a Russian national and any legal person, entity or body established in a third country other than Russia, with the exception of partner countries listed in Annex VIII to this Regulation, selling, supplying, transferring or exporting goods, technology and services, the sale, supply, transfer or export of which is prohibited under this Regulation, whether or not originating in the Union, to the persons, entities or bodies referred to in point (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph or for use in Russia.’ ;
(29) Article 11a is replaced by the following: ‘Article 11a 1. Any person referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), shall be entitled to recover, in judicial proceedings before the competent courts of a Member State, any direct or indirect damages, including legal costs, incurred by that person or by a legal person, entity or body that the person referred to in Article 13, point (d), owns or controls, as a consequence of claims lodged with courts in third countries by persons, entities and bodies referred to in Article 11(1), point (a), (b) or (c), in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under this Regulation, provided that the person concerned does not have effective access to the remedies under the relevant jurisdiction. Such damages may be recovered from the persons, entities or bodies referred to in Article 11(1), point (a), (b) or (c), that lodged the claims with the courts in the third country, or from persons, entities or bodies that own or control those entities or bodies. 2. Without prejudice to paragraph 1, any person referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), shall be entitled to recover, in judicial proceedings before the competent courts of a Member State, any direct or indirect damages, including legal costs, incurred by that person or by a legal person, entity or body that the person referred to in Article 13, point (d), owns or controls, as a consequence of injunctions, orders, reliefs, judgments or other judicial or administrative decisions rendered in third countries other than Russia, which seek to enforce judgments upholding claims referred to in paragraph 1, provided that the person concerned does not have effective access to the remedies under the relevant jurisdiction. Such damages may be recovered from the persons, entities or bodies that seek or cooperate in the enforcement of judgments upholding claims referred to in paragraph 1 in a third country other than Russia, or from persons, entities or bodies that own or control those entities or bodies, with the exception of their lawyers and of members of the judiciary, and with the exception of persons referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), or legal persons, entities or bodies that the persons referred to in Article 13, point (d), own or control, against whom a judgment upholding claims referred to in paragraph 1 has been issued.’ ;
(30) Article 11b is amended as follows: (a) the following paragraph is inserted: ‘1a. Without prejudice to paragraph 1, any person referred to in Article 13, point (c) or (d), shall be entitled to recover, in judicial proceedings before the competent courts of a Member State, any direct or indirect damages, including legal costs, incurred by that person or by a legal person, entity or body that the person referred to in Article 13, point (d), owns or controls, as a consequence of injunctions, orders, reliefs, judgments or other judicial or administrative decisions rendered in a third country other than Russia, which seek to enforce the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation No 302 of 25 April 2023 as subsequently amended, Federal Law No 470-FZ of 4 August 2023 as subsequently amended, or related or equivalent Russian legislation, provided that such decision is illegal under international customary law or under a bilateral investment treaty entered into between the relevant Member State and the relevant jurisdiction, and provided that the person concerned does not otherwise have effective access to the remedies under the relevant jurisdiction. Such damages may be recovered from the persons, entities or bodies that seek or cooperate in the enforcement of decisions referred to in paragraph 1 in a third country other than Russia, or from persons, entities or bodies that own or control those entities or bodies, with the exception of their lawyers and of members of the judiciary.’ ;
(31) the following article is inserted: ‘Article 11ca Without prejudice to Articles 11a and 11b, in the event that a person referred to in point (a), (b) or (c) of Article 11(1) of this Regulation initiated proceedings before a Russian court in connection with any contract or transaction the performance of which has been affected, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the measures imposed under this Regulation or under Regulation (EU) No 269/2014, in breach of an exclusive jurisdiction or arbitration clause or otherwise pursuant to Article 248.1 or Article 248.2 of the Arbitration Procedure Code of the Russian Federation or equivalent Russian legislation, against a natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in point (c) or (d) of Article 13 of this Regulation to obtain an injunction, order, relief, judgment or other Court decision, the natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in point (c) or (d) of Article 13 of this Regulation shall be entitled to obtain, in judicial proceedings before the competent courts of a Member State, a court order upholding the exclusive jurisdiction or arbitration clause and ordering the person indicated in point (a), (b) or (c) of Article 11(1) to not initiate or to discontinue those legal proceedings. Failure to observe that order shall lead to financial penalties proportionate to the potential loss which could be incurred by the natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in point (c) or (d) of Article 13 of this Regulation as a result of such violation. Payment of the financial penalties imposed by the court shall be made to the natural or legal person, entity or body referred to in point (c) or (d) of Article 13 of this Regulation that submitted the request.’ ;
(32) Article 11d is replaced by the following: ‘Article 11d Where no court of a Member State has jurisdiction pursuant to other provisions of Union law or of the law of a Member State, a court of a Member State may, on an exceptional basis, hear a claim for damages brought pursuant to Article 11a, Article 11b, Article 11ca or Article 11e, provided that the case has a sufficient connection with the Member State of the court seised.’ ;
(33) Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex I to this Regulation;
(34) Annex IV is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation;
(35) Annex VII is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation;
(36) Annex XIV is amended in accordance with Annex IV to this Regulation;
(37) Annex XVIII is amended in accordance with Annex V to this Regulation;
(38) Annex XXI is amended in accordance with Annex VI to this Regulation;
(39) Annex XXIII is amended in accordance with Annex VII to this Regulation;
(40) Annexes XXIIIE, XXIIIF and XXIIIG are deleted;
(41) Annex XXIIIH is added in accordance with Annex VIII to this Regulation;
(42) Annex XXV is amended in accordance with Annex IX to this Regulation;
(43) Annex XXIX is amended in accordance with Annex X to this Regulation;
(44) Annex XXXIII is amended in accordance with Annex XI to this Regulation;
(45) Annex XXXVII is amended in accordance with Annex XII to this Regulation;
(46) Annex XLII is amended in accordance with Annex XIII to this Regulation;
(47) Annex XLIV is amended in accordance with Annex XIV to this Regulation;
(48) Annex XLV is amended in accordance with Annex XV to this Regulation;
(49) Annex XLVII is amended in accordance with Annex XVI to this Regulation;
(50) Annex LI is amended in accordance with Annex XVII to this Regulation;
(51) Annex LIII is amended in accordance with Annex XVIII to this Regulation;
(52) Annex LIV is added in accordance with Annex XIX to this Regulation;
(53) Annex LV is added in accordance with Annex XX to this Regulation;
(54) Annex LVI is added in accordance with Annex XXI to this Regulation.

Article 2

This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.

Done at Brussels, 23 April 2026.

For the Council

The President

M. RAOUNA

(1) OJ L, 2026/508, 23.4.2026, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec/2026/508/oj.

(2) Council Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 of 31 July 2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (OJ L 229, 31.7.2014, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2014/833/oj).

(3) Council Decision 2014/512/CFSP of 31 July 2014 concerning restrictive measures in view of Russia’s actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine (OJ L 229, 31.7.2014, p. 13, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dec/2014/512/oj).

(4) Council Regulation (EU) No 269/2014 of 17 March 2014 concerning restrictive measures in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine (OJ L 78, 17.3.2014, p. 6, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2014/269/oj).

ANNEX I

In Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, the heading ‘List of items referred to in Article 3’ and the accompanying table are deleted.

ANNEX II

In Annex IV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, the following entities are added:

Number Name Identifying Information Date of listing ‘862. Epic Shipping & Shipbuilding JSC Local name: EPIC Denizcilik ve Gemi Insaat A.S. Address: Room 15, Floor 2, Lantana Plaza, Zinnur Str. 3, İçmeler, 34947 Tuzla, İstanbul, Republic of Türkiye Telephone: 0216 4461686 Websites: https://www.epicdeniz.com/; https://epicdeniz.com.tr/ Email: info@epicdeniz.com Registration number: 160825-5 (Registration Number); 1150676-0 (Chamber Registration Number) 23.4.2026 863. CJSC Perspective Technologies Agency a.k.a.: JSC UPT; Aktsionernoe obshchestvo upravlenie perspektivnykh tekhnologii; Management of Prospective Technologies Local name: АО УПТ (АКЦИОНЕРНОЕ ОБЩЕСТВО “УПРАВЛЕНИЕ ПЕРСПЕКТИВНЫХ ТЕХНОЛОГИЙ”) Address: Building 2, Samokatnaya Street 1, 111033 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 499 323 3710 Email: mail@upt.ru Registration number: 7723022111 (INN) 23.4.2026 864. LLC Mossklad Local name: ООО Моссклад Address: Office 3107, Kronstadstky Boulevard 35B, 125499 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 150 85 87 Website: https://mossklad.ru Email: info@mossklad.ru Registration number: 7703597369 (INN) 23.4.2026 865. LLC Stanki Optom a.k.a.: Stanki LLC Local name: ООО Станки Оптом Address: Kronstadstky Boulevard 35B, 125499 Moscow, Russian Federation Website: https://stankiopt.ru Email: info@stankiopt.ru Registration number: 7743850924 (INN) 23.4.2026 866. LLC Promoil a.k.a.: LLC Promol Local name: ООО Промойл Address(es): 9 Khokhryakova Street, 614068 Perm, Perm Region, Russian Federation Room 7, 115B Promyshlennaya Street, Perm, Perm Region, 614065, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 3422 181440 Website: https://promoil.com/ Email: office@promoil.com Registration number: 5904112229 (INN) 23.4.2026 867. LLC TPF Promoil a.k.a.: Torgovo-Proizvodstvennaya Firma Promoil Local name: ООО ТПФ Промойл Address: Room 8, 115B Promyshlennaya Street, Perm City, Perm Region, 614055, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 342 2181440 Registration number: 5903060560 (INN) 23.4.2026 868. LLC Legion Komplekt a.k.a.: LLC Leko Local name: ООО ЛЕГИОН КОМПЛЕКТ Address: 17 Vavilova Str., 117312 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 499 391 22 27 Website: https://legion-komplekt.ru/ Email: sales@legion-komplekt.ru Registration number: 7743208298 (INN) 23.4.2026 869. O G Services FZE LLC Local name: او.جي. سيرفيسيز م.م.ح/ذ.م.م Address: A-29-01-02-06, Flamingo Villas, Ajman, United Arab Emirates Telephone: +971526810027; +971526810027 Website: https://ogservicesfz.com/ Email: sunnysolutions2020@gmail.com Registration number: 11641010 (Company Number); 1969 (Business Number) 23.4.2026 870. Al Baraka Group for Investment and Trading LLC FZ Address: Business Center 1, M Floor, The Meydan Hotel, Nad Al Sheba, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Telephone: 971-503-394677 Website: https://albaraka-trade.com/ Email: contact@albaraka-trade.com 23.4.2026 871. Jiangxi Xintuo Enterprise a.k.a.: Jiangxi Xintuo Industrial Co. Ltd.; T-Motor Local name: 江西新拓实业有限公司 Address: 24th floor, Building B, 3399 Ziyang Avenue, 330096 Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, People’s Republic of China Registration number: 91360106343241017B (USCC) 23.4.2026 872. KingMax Hobby Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: KingMax High Performance Servos; Dongguan Binong Technology Co. Ltd.; Dongguan Binong Aviation Paishe Technology Co. Ltd.; Guangdong Beyond Aviation Photography Technology Co. Ltd Local name: 东莞碧浓科技有限公司 Address(es): Room 703, 10th Building, No. 6 DuiTangHualing 1st Road, Chashan Town, Dongguan City, 523393, Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 769 82680289 Website: http://www.kingmaxhobby.com Email: sales@kingmaxhobby.com Registration number: 914419005517077668 (USCC) 23.4.2026 873. LLC Altrabeta Local name: ООО Альтрабета Address(es): Room 3-4, Building A, Block 5, 13 Promyshlennaya Str., 198095 Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation; Per. 1-I Verkhnii d. 6, lit. A, office 211, 194292 Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 9062 615055 Registration number: 7802646313 (INN) 23.4.2026 874. Woeroon Electronic Sourcing Ltd. a.k.a.: Wo Rong Electronics Co. Ltd.; Woeroon Electronic Resource Ltd. Local name: 沃融電子有限公司 Address(es): Workshop A27 24/F, Regent’s Park Prince Industrial Bldg, No. 706 Prince Edward Rd East Kowloon, Hong Kong; Flat 7A, 3/F, Winsum Industrial Bldg 588-592 Castle Peal Road, Lai Chi Kok, KL, Hong Kong; 605, Building L2, Exhibition Bay South Bank, Zhancheng Community, Fuhai Street, Bao’an, Shenzen, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +852 94968367 Website: http://www.woeroon.com.hk/ Email: sales@woeroon.com.hk Registration number: 1891196 (TRN); 61273507 (BRN) 23.4.2026 875. CoYuan Century Development Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: Hong Kong Keyuan Century Development Co. Ltd. Local name: 香港科源世紀發展有限公司 Address(es): Room 701, Unit 108, 7/f, Tower b, New Mandarin Plaza, 14 Science Museum Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong; Shop 185 G/F, 11111 Tuen Mun, Hang, Hong Kong Registration number: 3282394 (TRN); 75349736 (BRN) 23.4.2026 876. Shenzhen Youbang Shida Freight Forwarding Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: Shen Zhen You Bang Shi Da Freight Forwarding Co. Ltd.; Shenzhen Youbang Star Freight Forwarding Co. Ltd.; Amigo Cargo Services Ltd. Local name: 深圳友邦仕达货运代理有限公司 Address: Office 711, Building 4, Tongtai Times Centre, Fuhai Str., 518100 Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 0755 27205071 Website: https://www.amigocargo.biz/ Email: info@amigocargo.biz Registration number: 91440300MA5DQL3N4G (USCC) 23.4.2026 877. Beijing Timingtron Corporation a.k.a.: Beijing Tianmei Technology Co. Ltd.; Beijing Tianmei Chuang Technology Co. Ltd. Local name: 北京天美创科技有限公司 Address: Room 211, 2nd Floor, Building 1, Shuangyuan Road 9, 100040 Beijing, People’s Republic of China Phone: +86 15910710610 Website: www.timingtron.com Email: 335807548@qq.com Registration number: 911101075636661567 (USCC) 23.4.2026 878. Global Link Logistics Local name: 深圳市世联国际货运代理有限公司 Address: Unit 33D, Block B, Honglong Century Plaza, Heping Road, Luohu District, 518021 Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China Phone: +86 0755 82147503; +86 755 82147490 Website: http://www.globallink.cn/ Registration number: 914403007917362245 (USCC) 23.4.2026 879. LLC Eltech Components Local name: ООО Элтех Компонент Address: Pl Konstitutsii 3, B-TS Piramida, 196247 Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 812 3279090 Website: www.eltech.spb.ru Email: info@eltech.spb.ru Registration number: 7810540857 (INN) 23.4.2026 880. Izhevsk Raviozavod OAO a.k.a.: Izhevsk Radioplant; IRZ OAO Local name: ИЖЕВСКИЙ РАДИОЗАВОД; АО ИРЗ Address: 19 Bazisnaya St., 426034 Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, Russian Federation Phone: +7 3412 501501; +7 341 2500404 Website: https://www.irz.ru Email: disp@irz.ru Registration number: 1833013253 (INN) 23.4.2026 881. IRZ Tek Local name: ООО Ирз ТЭК Address: 19 Bazisnaya St., 426034 Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, Russian Federation Phone: +7 3412 501501 Website: https://oil.irz.ru/ Email: tek@irz.ru Registration number: 1833033690 (INN) 23.4.2026 882. Radiozavod Zao a.k.a.: JSC Paket; JSC Package Local name: АО Пакет Address: 19 Bazisnaya St., 426034 Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, Russian Federation Phone: +7 912 8700638 Website: http://zao-paket.ru Registration number: 1833010911 (INN) 23.4.2026 883. Izhevskii Radiozavod a.k.a.: Izhevskiy Radiozavod; LLC Izhevsk Radio Plant; Branch of the LLC Izhevsk Radio Plant in Moscow KB Robotics Local name: ООО ИРЗ Address: 19 Bazisnaya St., 426034 Izhevsk, Udmurt Republic, Russian Federation Phone: +7 3412 487824 Website: https://www.irz.ru Email: disp@irz.ru Registration number: 1833026870 (INN) 23.4.2026 884. Finder Technology Ltd. Local name: 超達科技有限公司 Address(es): Camel Paint Building Block 3, 60 Hoi Yuen Rd, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong; Unit A, 7/F, Yeung Yiu Chung, No. 7 Industrial Building, 2 Fung Yip Street, Chai Wan, Hong Kong Telephone: +852 3693 4608 Website: https://www.findertechnology.com/ Email: purchasing@findertechnology.com Registration number: 0960469 (TRN); 35585540 (BRN) 23.4.2026 885. Inner Mongolia Asia Europe International Logistics Limited Co. Local name: 内蒙古亚欧国际物流有限责任公司 Address: 9th Floor, Building E, Central Business Plaza, 012000 Ulaanchabu City, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 13500641757 Registration number: 150900020252300 (TRN) 23.4.2026 886. Shanghai Welltech Electronic Trading Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: Shanghai Weierstai Electronic Trading Co. Ltd.; Shanghai Weiter Stein Electronic Trading Co. Ltd.; Shanghai Weiersite Electronic Trading Co. Ltd.; Shanghai Welltech Industrial Automation Co. Ltd. Local name: 上海威洱斯泰电子贸易有限公司 Address: Room 707, No. 1333 Wenju Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 021 52660800 Registration number: 91310115MABYFCP95K (USCC) 23.4.2026 887. Beliv Ltd. Local name: ООО БЕЛИВ Address: 1 Derbenevskaya Str., 115114 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 7416534 Website: http://www.beliv-el.ru Email: sales@beliv-el.ru Registration number: 7725505636 (INN) 23.4.2026 888. LLC T1 Local name: ООО Т1 Address: Office 198, 7/1 Korovii Val Str., Yakima District, 119049 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 988 62 19 Website: www.oct1.ru Email: ktk@oct1.ru Registration number: 9705058824 (INN) 23.4.2026 889. Abingo Distributor Ltd. a.k.a.: Bingou Technology (Hong Kong) International Trade Co. Ltd.; Abinho Dystrybiutor Limited Local name: 繽購科技香港國際貿易有限公司 Address: Room 803, 8/F Easey Comm Building, 253-261 Hennessy Rd, Wanchai, Hong Kong Registration number: 2568101 (TRN), 68085539 (BRN) 23.4.2026 890. LLC Chainchip a.k.a.: LLC Cheynchip Local name: OOO Чейнчип Address: Building 1A, 20 Kulakova Street, Strogino Municipal District, 123592 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 1034394 Website: https://chainchip.ru/ Email: sales@chainchip.ru Registration number: 7705406940 (INN) 23.4.2026 891. LLC Gaderia a.k.a.: Gamma Ltd. Local name: ООО Гадерия Address: Nekrasova Str. 19, 188800 Vyborg, Leningrad Oblast, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 813 7831509 Website: http://www.icgamma.ru Email: sale@icgamma.ru Registration number: 4704031242 (INN) 23.4.2026 892. AI Electronic Componets PTE Ltd. a.k.a.: Intelligent Electronic Components Co. Ltd. Local name: 智能電子元件有限公司 Address(es): Flat E19, 10/F, No 52, Hung To Road, Hong Kong; Room 516 5/F Kam Teem Industria Building 135 Connaught Road West, Sai Wan, Sai Ying Pun, Hong Kong Registration number: 74815130 (BRN); 3229195 (TRN) 23.4.2026 893. LLC Advanced Planet a.k.a.: Edvansd Planet Local name: ООО Эдвансд Планет Address: Office 901-2, Section 2, Building 1, Pokhodny Ave. 4, 125373 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 909 9548118 Registration number: 7716852680 (INN) 23.4.2026 894. Bamgroup LLC a.k.a.: Bamgrupp LLC Local name: ООО Бамгрупп Address: Room 1n/6, Building 1, Ulansky Lane 22, 101000 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 2129368 Website: www.bamgroup.ru Registration number: 7725318379 (INN) 23.4.2026 895. SoVa Distribution Ltd. Address: Unit 617, 6/F, 131-132 Connaught Road West, Solo Workshops, Hong Kong; Office 77, 7/F, Woon Lee Commercial Building, 7 Austin Ave., Hong Kong Registration number: 3220535 (TRN), 74727167 (BRN) 23.4.2026 896. LLC Effektec a.k.a.: Effektivnye Tekhnologii Local name: ООО Эффектек Address: Room 1/13, Building 2, Novodmitroskaya Str. 2, 127015 Moscow, Russian Federation Registration number: 7723910653 (INN) 23.4.2026 897. Shenzhen Sieryou Technology Co. Ltd. Local name: 深圳市斯尔优科技有限公司 Address: 18th Floor, Yifang Building, No. 315 Shuangming Avenue, Dongzhou Community, Guangming Street, 518107 Shenzhen, Guangdong, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 13544116689 Registration number: 91440300360134563F (USCC) 23.4.2026 898. Tellur Elektroniks LLC Local name: ООО ТЕЛЛУР ЭЛЕКТРОНИКС Address(es): Building 1, Profsoyuznaya Str. 65, Konkovo District, 117342 Moscow, Russian Federation; Room 49, Floor 4, Butlerova Str. 17, 117342 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 2807448 Website: https://tellur-el.ru/ Email: info@tellur-el.ru Registration number: 7720355306 (INN) 23.4.2026 899. NPP Variant a.k.a.: LLC NPP Variant Group Local name: ООО НПП ВАРИАНТ ГРУПП Address: Room 1/2, Building 1, Baumanskaya Str. 43/1, 105005 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 916 7898010 Website: https://www.nppvg.ru/ Email: info@nppvg.ru Registration number: 9729210267 (INN) 23.4.2026 900. Lumos LLC a.k.a.: Lyumos LLC Local name: ООО ЛЮМОС Address: Room 62, Building V, Radishcheva Str. 39, 191123 Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 9214 035267 Registration number: 7842121055 (INN) 23.4.2026 901. Promtek LLC Local name: ООО ПРОМТЭК Address(es): Building 2, Yakhromskaya Str. 1A, 127411 Moscow, Russian Federation; Office 1/p, Building 1, Shvernika Str. 16, 117449 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 499 3919825 Website: http://promtekmsk.ru/ Email: info@promtekmsk.ru Registration number: 7713411542 (INN) 23.4.2026 902. Mavitech LLC Local name: ООО МАВИТЕХ Address: Room 404M, Building 3, Perekopskaya Str. 34, 117461 Moscow, Russian Federation Registration number: 9727075380 (INN) 23.4.2026 903. Applied Robotics LLC a.k.a.: Prikladnaya Robototekhnika Local name: ООО ПРИКЛАДНАЯ РОБОТОТЕХНИКА Address: Office 2/35, Floor 10, Building 1, Beregovoy Ave. 5A, 121087 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 495 1420235 Websites: https://robotgeeks.ru/; https://appliedrobotics.ru/ Email: support@robotgeeks.ru Registration number: 7730697556 (INN) 23.4.2026 904. NPO Ufimets a.k.a.: Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obyedinenie Ufimets Local name: ООО НПО УФИМЕЦ Address: Proezd Vtoroi Street 8, MKR Industrialnyi Park, 450028 Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation Registration number: 0245972204 (INN) 23.4.2026 905. Avtokom Motor LLC a.k.a.: Avtocom Motor LCC Local name: ООО Автоком Мотор Address: Office 17/18, Unit 8, 18 Azarovskaya Str., 248017 Kaluga, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 4842 579183 Registration number: 4028046482 (INN) 23.4.2026 906. LLC DeltaTech a.k.a.: Deltatekh Local name: ООО Дельтатех Address: Novo-Sadovaya Str. 224A, 443029 Samara, Russian Federation Registration number: 6316245174 (INN) 23.4.2026 907. LLC Santross Local name: ООО САНТРОСС Address: Room 475M/2, Building 1, Presnenskaya Embankment 8, 123112 Moscow, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 905 7922050 Email: sse10@mail.ru Registration number: 7703469600 (INN) 23.4.2026 908. NeWay Technology Ltd. Address(es): Unit 606, 6 Floor, Celebrity Commercial Centre, 64 Castle Peak Road, Sham Shui Po, Kowloon, Hong Kong; Unit D7, 3/F., Block D, 18-24 Kwai Cheong Road, Mai Shun Industrial Building, Kwai Chung, N.T., Hong Kong; Room 1206, Hua Lianfa West Building, Hua Qiang North Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +852-3468-8553 Website: http://www.nwtech.hk Registration number: 39510585 (BRN), 1252800 (TRN) 23.4.2026 909. Etai Technology Shenzhen Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: Russia-Thailand Technology (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd.; Outai Technology (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. Local name: 俄泰科技（深圳）有限公司 Address(es): Room 1206, Hualianfa Building, Huaqiang North Road 2006, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China; Fuhing Road 9, World Trade Plaza, Futian District, 518000 Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +86 13570885633 Registration number: 91440300553853134A (USCC) 23.4.2026 910. Meryn Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi Address: No. 18, 1471st Str., Alsancak, 35220 Konak, Izmir Province, Republic of Türkiye Telephone: +90 232 402 64 64 Website: https://meryn.com.tr/ Email: info@meryn.com.tr Registration number: 247646 (TRN) 23.4.2026 911. Abem Global Ithalat Ihracat Anonim Sirketi Address: No. 20, Block H, Corapcilar, Ikitelli Industrial Zone, Basaksehir District, 34490 Istanbul, Republic of Türkiye Registration number: 1001816 (TRN) 23.4.2026 912. Autoteile Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi Address: No. 365, Flora Residence 1, Defne Str., Kücükbakkalköy Neighbourhood, Atasehir District, Istanbul, Republic of Türkiye Registration number: 401990-5 (TRN) 23.4.2026 913. Sure Technology (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd. Local name: 易准科技（香港）有限公司 Address(es): Room 1318, 13th Floor, Sunbeam Centre, 27 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; Unit 1406A, 14/F, The Belgian Bank Building, 721-725 Nathan Road, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Hong Kong Telephone: +8613670120272 Website: www.surecompany.com.cn/ Email: info@surecompany.com.cn Registration number: 73713787 (BRN); 3120008 (TRN) 23.4.2026 914. Horsway Tech (HK) Co. Ltd. Local name: 宏芯微科技(香港)有限公司 Address(es): Room 1318, Sunbeam Centre, 27 Shing Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; Room 2003, 20/F Hong Kong Plaza, 188 Connaught Road West, Hong Kong Telephone: 0755 2690 74432 Website: https://horsway.site.joinf.com/ Email: info@horsway.com Registration number: 50859819 (BRN), 1350711 (TRN) 23.4.2026 915. RC-All Electronics Group Co. Ltd. a.k.a.: R&C Alliance Electronics Group Address(es): Unit 811, Beverley Commercial Centre, 87-105 Chatham Road South, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong; Room 12A1, Block A, Zhonghangbeiyuan Building, No. 42 Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Province, People’s Republic of China Telephone: +7 495 248 01 82 Website: https://www.rc-all.com/ Email: sales@rc-all.com Registration number: 72456934 (BRN); 3000068 (TRN) 23.4.2026 916. New Wally Target Local name: 紐沃泰國際貿易有限公司 Address(es): Room 4, 16/F, Ho King Commercial Centre, 2-16 Fayuen Str., Mongkok Kowloon, Hong Kong; Room B3, 19/F Tung Lee Commercial Building, 91-97 Jervois Str., Sheung Wan, Hong Kong Website: http://newwallytarget.com Email: 45245795@qq.com Registration number: 69586803 (BRN); 2717220 (TRN) 23.4.2026 917. Jinmingsheng Technology HK Co. Ltd. A.k.a.: Jinmingsheng Technology (HK) Co. Ltd. Local name: 金銘盛科技(香港)有限公司 Address(es): Room 803B, Floor 8, West Coast International Building, 290-296 Yuen Chau Str., Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong; Room 1838, Guoli Building, Zhonghang Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, People’s Republic of China; Room 61868 6/F, Golconda Trade Center, 163 Zhenhua Rd, Futian District, Shenzhen, People’s Republic of China Phone: +86 755 23815714 Websites: http://www.jms668.com/; https://jinmingsheng.hkinventory.com/Shop/Page_Contacts.asp Registration number: 50093445 (BRN); 1292952 (TRN) 23.4.2026 918. JSC K-Technologies a.k.a.: AO RTI Local name: АО К-ТЕХНОЛОГИИ Address: 7Ac30 Staropetrovsky Proezd, 125130 Moscow, Russian Federation Phone: +7 495 788 00 07 Websites: https://www.k-tech.ru; https://www.aorti.ru Email: inbox@k-tech.ru Registration number: 7713723559 (INN) 23.4.2026 919. LLC Scientific Production Association Computing Systems a.k.a.: Nauchno-Proizvodstvennoe Obyedinenie Vychislitelnykh Sistem; LLC NPO VS Local name: OOO НАУЧНО-ПРОИЗВОДСТВЕННОЕ ОБЪЕДИНЕНИЕ ВЫЧИСЛИТЕЛЬНЫХ СИСТЕМ Address: Office 2, Zhurnalistov Str. 30, 420088 Kazan, Russian Federation; NIISSU Building, Starokaluzhskoe Highway 58, 117630 Moscow, Russian Federation Phone: +7 843) 208 00 40 Website: https://npo-vs.ru Email: npovs@bk.ru Registration number: 1660093042 (INN) 23.4.2026 920. LLC Unimatic a.k.a.: LLC Unimatik; Unimatic Ltd Local name: ООО Униматик Address: Vostochnaya Str. 45, 620100 Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk Oblast, Russian Federation Telephone: +7 343 289 9020 Email: sales@unimatic.ru; hotline@unimatic.ru Website: https://unimatic.ru/ Registration number: 6672197493 (INN) 23.4.2026 921. TAB Corporation (Thailand) Co. Ltd Local name: ทีเอบี คอร์เปอร์เรชั่น (ไทยแลนด์) จำกัด Address: 4F, 850/21 Ladkrabang 30/5 Road, Ladkrabang, Bangkok 10520, Kingdom of Thailand Phone: +66 2 038 9995 Website: www.tabcorp.co.th Email: bkk@tabcorp.co.th Registration number: 0105566093417 23.4.2026’

ANNEX III

Annex VII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) in Part A, Category VIII, Section X.C.VIII.004, the following items are added: ‘ee. Amatol (CAS 8006-19-7); ff. Nitroglycol (CAS 628-96-6); or gg. Picryl chloride (CAS 88-88-0).’;
(2) in Part A, Category VIII, Section X.C.VIII.005, item a. is replaced by the following: ‘a. Toluene Diisocyanate, in any isomeric form (CAS 584-84-9, 91-08-7, 26471-62-5);’;
(3) in Part A, Category IX, the following section is inserted: ‘X.C.IX.017 Lubricating materials, fluids and additives thereof, not controlled by 1C006, as follows: a. Lubricating oils having all the following characteristics: 1. A “pour point” equal or less than 218,15 K (–55 oC); and 2. A “flash point” equal or higher than 478,15 K (205 oC); Technical Notes: 1. For the purpose of the control X.C.IX.017, “pour point” is determined using the method described in ISO 3016 or “equivalent standards”. 2. For the purpose of the control X.C.IX.017, “flash point” is determined using the method described in ISO 2592 or “equivalent standards”. b. Lubricating greases having all the following characteristics: 1. A minimum operating temperature of less than 233,15 K (–40 oC); 2. A maximum operating temperature exceeding 413,15 K (140 oC); and 3. A “dropping point” equal or higher than 523,15 K (250 oC); Technical Note: For the purpose of the control X.C.IX.017, “dropping point” is determined using the method described in ISO 2176 or “equivalent standards”. c. Damping or flotation fluids containing any of the following: 1. Dibromotetrafluoroethane (CAS 25497-30-7, 124-73-2, 27336-23-8); 2. Polychlorotrifluoroethylene (CAS 9002-83-9); or 3. Polybromotrifluoroethylene (CAS 55157-25-0); d. Fluorocarbon fluids containing any of the following: 1. Monomeric forms of perfluoropolyalkylether-triazines or perfluoroaliphatic-ethers; 2. Perfluoroalkylamines; 3. Perfluorocycloalkanes; or 4. Perfluoroalkanes; e. Magnetorheological fluids. f. Additives as follows: 1. Alkyldiphenylamines (CAS number 68921-45-9); 2. Antioxidant BX AO 5057 (CAS 68411-46-1); 3. Butylated hydroxyanisole (CAS 25013-16-5); 4. Butylated hydroxytoluene (CAS 128-37-0); 5. Dialkyldithiocarbamates: a) Molybdenum dialkyldithiocarbamate (CAS 253873-83-5); b) Zinc diethyldithiocarbamate (CAS 14324-55-1); c) Bismuth dimethyldithiocarbamate (CAS 21260-46-8); 6. Disulphides: a) Molybdenum disulphide (CAS 1317-33-5); b) Tungsten disulphide (CAS 12138-09-9); 7. Dithiophosphates: a) Molybdenum dithiophosphate (CAS 72030-25-2); b) Zinc dithiophosphates (CAS 19210-06-1); 8. N-phenyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutylnaphthalen-1-amine (CAS 90-30-2); 9. Triphenylphosphorothionate (CAS 597-82-0); 10. Tricresyl phosphate; or 11. Zinc dialkyldithiophosphate (CAS 68649-42-3 and 68457-79-4).’;
(4) in Part B, Table ‘10. Miscellaneous’, the following item is inserted: CN Code Description ‘7017 Laboratory, hygienic or pharmaceutical glassware, whether or not graduated or calibrated’

ANNEX IV

In Annex XIV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, the following entries are added:

Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force ‘Public Joint Stock Commercial Bank “DERZHAVA” 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Company BCS Bank 14.5.2026 Public Joint Stock Company “LEVOBEREZHNY” 14.5.2026 Public Joint Stock Company SCB “Metallinvestbank” 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Company Commercial Bank “Solidarnost” 14.5.2026 Limited Liability Company Bank Blanc 14.5.2026 Limited Liability Company BANK ITURUP 14.5.2026 Joint-Stock Commercial Bank “EVROFINANCE MOSNARBANK” 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Commercial Bank FORA-BANK 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Company Bank Russian Standard 14.5.2026 Public Joint Stock Company Ural Bank for Reconstruction and Development 14.5.2026 Chelyabinvestbank 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Company “Petersburg Social Commercial Bank” 14.5.2026 Public Joint Stock Company “SDM-Bank” 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Company “Bank Avers” 14.5.2026 Commercial Bank “Khlynov” (Joint Stock Company) 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Company “Post Bank” 14.5.2026 Limited Liability Company Wildberries Bank 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Bank “AVANGARD” 14.5.2026 Joint Stock Investment Commercial Bank “ENISEISK UNITED BANK” 14.5.2026’

ANNEX V

Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) in Table (15), the following entries are deleted: ‘ex 8414 51 Table, floor, wall, window, ceiling or roof fans, with a self-contained electric motor of an output not exceeding 125 W ex 8414 59 00 Other fans ex 8414 60 00 Hoods having a maximum horizontal side not exceeding 120 cm’
(2) in Table (17), the following entries are deleted: ‘ex 4011 10 00 Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars) ex 4011 40 00 Of a kind used on motorcycles ex 4011 90 00 Other’

ANNEX VI

Annex XXI to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) the following entries are inserted: CN code Name of the good ‘2501 Salt (including table salt and denatured salt) and pure sodium chloride, whether or not in aqueous solution or containing added anti-caking or free-flowing agents; sea water 2517 Pebbles, gravel, broken or crushed stone, of a kind commonly used for concrete aggregates, for road metalling or for railway or other ballast, shingle and flint, whether or not heat-treated; macadam of slag, dross or similar industrial waste, whether or not incorporating the materials cited in the first part of the heading; tarred macadam; granules, chippings and powder, of stones of heading 2515 or 2516, whether or not heat-treated 2519 Natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite); fused magnesia; dead-burned (sintered) magnesia, whether or not containing small quantities of other oxides added before sintering; other magnesium oxide, whether or not pure 2522 Quicklime, slaked lime and hydraulic lime, other than calcium oxide and hydroxide of heading 2825 2530 Mineral substances not elsewhere specified or included 2601 Iron ores and concentrates, including roasted iron pyrites 2619 Slag, dross (other than granulated slag), scalings and other waste from the manufacture of iron or steel 2620 Slag, ash and residues (other than from the manufacture of iron or steel), containing metals, arsenic or their compounds 2621 Other slag and ash, including seaweed ash (kelp); ash and residues from the incineration of municipal waste 2804 61 Silicon containing >= 99,99 % by weight of silicon 2804 69 Silicon containing < 99,99 % by weight of silicon 2814 Ammonia, anhydrous or in aqueous solution 2815 Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda); potassium hydroxide (caustic potash); peroxides of sodium or potassium 2816 Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium; oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, of strontium or barium 2833 Sulphates; alums; peroxosulphates (persulphates) 2849 Carbides, whether or not chemically defined 2910 Epoxides, epoxyalcohols, epoxyphenols and epoxyethers, with a three membered ring, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives 2916 Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, cyclic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids; their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives 2926 Nitrile-function compounds 4016 Other articles of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber 4302 Tanned or dressed furskins (including heads, tails, paws and other pieces or cuttings), unassembled, or assembled (without the addition of other materials) other than those of heading 4303 Ex 7110 Platinum, unwrought or in semi-manufactured forms, or in powder form, except for CN codes 7110 21 and 7210 29 7204 Ferrous waste and scrap; remelting scrap ingots of iron or steel 7401 Copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated copper) 7402 Unrefined copper; copper anodes for electrolytic refining 7403 Refined copper and copper alloys, unwrought 7404 Copper waste and scrap Ex 7406 Copper powders and flakes, except dendritic copper powder 7503 Nickel waste and scrap 7504 Nickel powders and flakes 7505 Nickel bars, rods, profiles and wire 7602 Aluminium waste and scrap 7603 Aluminium powders and flakes 7610 Aluminium structures (excluding prefabricated buildings of heading 9406) and parts of structures (for example, bridges and bridge sections, towers, lattice masts, roofs, roofing frameworks, doors and windows and their frames and thresholds for doors, balustrades, pillars and columns); aluminium plates, rods, profiles, tubes and the like, prepared for use in structures: 7612 Aluminium casks, drums, cans, boxes and similar containers (including rigid or collapsible tubular containers), for any material (other than compressed or liquefied gas), of a capacity not exceeding 300 litres, whether or not lined or heat-insulated, but not fitted with mechanical or thermal equipment 8102 Molybdenum and articles thereof, including waste and scrap 8104 Magnesium and articles thereof, including waste and scrap 8105 Cobalt mattes and other intermediate products of cobalt metallurgy; cobalt and articles thereof, including waste and scrap’
(2) the entry: CN code Name of the good ‘ex 2825 Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and their inorganic salts; other inorganic bases; other metal oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, except for CN codes 28252000 and 28253000’ is replaced by the following: CN code Name of the good ‘ex 2825 Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and their inorganic salts; other inorganic bases; other metal oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, except for CN code 28253000’

ANNEX VII

Annex XXIII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) the following entries are inserted: CN code Description ‘2931 Other organo-inorganic compounds Ex 2932 Heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) only, except for CN code 2932 20 3603 Safety fuses; detonating cords; percussion or detonating caps; igniters; electric detonators 4001 Natural rubber, balata, gutta-percha, guayule, chicle and similar natural gums, in primary forms or in plates, sheets or strip 4007 Vulcanised rubber thread and cord Ex 4015 Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves, mittens and mitts), of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber, except for CN code 4015 12 4016 Other articles of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber 4017 Hard rubber (for example, ebonite) in all forms, including waste and scrap; articles of hard rubber 6805 Natural or artificial abrasive powder or grain, on a base of textile material, of paper, of paperboard or of other materials, whether or not cut to shape or sewn or otherwise made up 7318 Screws, bolts, nuts, coach screws, screw hooks, rivets, cotters, cotter pins, washers (including spring washers) and similar articles, of iron or steel 7325 Other cast articles of iron or steel 8209 Plates, sticks, tips and the like for tools, unmounted, of cermets 8311 Wire, rods, tubes, plates, electrodes and similar products, of base metal or of metal carbides, coated or cored with flux material, of a kind used for soldering, brazing, welding or deposition of metal or of metal carbides; wire and rods, of agglomerated base metal powder, used for metal spraying 8701 95 90 Tractors (other than tractors of heading 8709), of an engine power > 130 kw (excluding pedestrian-controlled tractors, road tractors for semi-trailers, track-laying tractors and wheeled agricultural/forestry tractors)’
(2) the following entries are deleted: ‘4016 93 Gaskets, washers and other seals, of vulcanised rubber (excl. hard rubber and those of cellular rubber) 7318 24 Cotters and cotter pins, of iron or steel’

ANNEX VIII

The following Annex is added to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014:

‘ANNEX XXIIIH

List of goods and technology as referred to in Article 3k(3al)

CN code Description 2931 Other organo-inorganic compounds Ex 2932 Heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) only, except for CN code 2932 20 3603 Safety fuses; detonating cords; percussion or detonating caps; igniters; electric detonators 4001 Natural rubber, balata, gutta-percha, guayule, chicle and similar natural gums, in primary forms or in plates, sheets or strip 4007 Vulcanised rubber thread and cord Ex 4015 Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves, mittens and mitts), of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber, except for CN code 4015 12 Ex 4016 Other articles of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber, except for CN code 4016 93 4017 Hard rubber (for example, ebonite) in all forms, including waste and scrap; articles of hard rubber 6805 Natural or artificial abrasive powder or grain, on a base of textile material, of paper, of paperboard or of other materials, whether or not cut to shape or sewn or otherwise made up Ex 7318 Screws, bolts, nuts, coach screws, screw hooks, rivets, cotters, cotter pins, washers (including spring washers) and similar articles, of iron or steel, except for CN code 7318 24 7325 Other cast articles of iron or steel 8209 Plates, sticks, tips and the like for tools, unmounted, of cermets 8311 Wire, rods, tubes, plates, electrodes and similar products, of base metal or of metal carbides, coated or cored with flux material, of a kind used for soldering, brazing, welding or deposition of metal or of metal carbides; wire and rods, of agglomerated base metal powder, used for metal spraying 8701 95 90 Tractors (other than tractors of heading 8709), of an engine power > 130 kw (excluding pedestrian-controlled tractors, road tractors for semi-trailers, track-laying tractors and wheeled agricultural/forestry tractors)’

ANNEX IX

Annex XXV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

The entry:

‘ex 2709 00 Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals, crude other than natural gas condensates of subheading CN 2709 00 10 from liquefied natural gas production plants.’

is replaced by the following:

‘2709 Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals, crude’

ANNEX X

The title of Annex XXIX to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is replaced by the following:

‘ANNEX XXIX

List of products and third countries referred to in Article 3n(6b)(b)’.

ANNEX XI

Annex XXXIII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is replaced by the following:

‘ANNEX XXXIII

List of goods and technology and countries as referred to in Article 12f

CN Code Description Country 8457 10 Machining centres for working metal Kyrgyz Republic 8517 62 Machines for the reception, conversion and transmission or regeneration of voice, images or other data, including switching and routing apparatus Kyrgyz Republic’

ANNEX XII

In Annex XXXVII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, the following entry is inserted:

CN code Description ‘3403 Lubricating preparations (including cutting-oil preparations, bolt or nut release preparations, anti-rust or anti-corrosion preparations and mould-release preparations, based on lubricants) and preparations of a kind used for the oil or grease treatment of textile materials, leather, furskins or other materials, but excluding preparations containing, as basic constituents, 70 % or more by weight of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals’

ANNEX XIII

Annex XLII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) entries 51, 72, 315, 437, 445, 448, 449, 504, 516, 532 and 553 are deleted;
(2) the following entries are added: Vessel name IMO number Grounds for inclusion Date of application ‘606. AUGA 9381732 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 607. BHILVA 9439383 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). Article 3s(2), point (f): are operated in such a way as to facilitate or engage in the violation or circumvention or otherwise significantly frustrate the provisions of this Regulation or of Regulations (EU) No 269/2014, (EU) No 692/2014 or (EU) 2022/263. 24.4.2026 608. DORRY 9298595 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 609. HE BO 9408554 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 610. INTEGRITY RACER 9270555 Article 3s(2), point (f): are operated in such a way as to facilitate or engage in the violation or circumvention or otherwise significantly frustrate the provisions of this Regulation or of Regulations (EU) No 269/2014, (EU) No 692/2014 or (EU) 2022/263. 24.4.2026 611. MARJORIE 9296377 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 612. SANAR-10 9300348 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 613. TM HAI HA 568 9274082 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 614. ABHRA 9282041 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). Article 3s(2), point (c): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies for the exploitation, development or expansion of the energy sector in Russia, including energy infrastructure. 24.4.2026 615. MIKHAIL LAZAREV 9837547 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 616. MIKHAIL ULYANOV 9333670 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 617. ONEIROI 9390587 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). Article 3s(2), point (c): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies for the exploitation, development or expansion of the energy sector in Russia, including energy infrastructure. 24.4.2026 618. SPARTA 9268710 Article 3s(2), point (a): transport goods and technology used in the defence and security sector, from or to Russia, for use in Russia or for Russia’s warfare in Ukraine. Article 3s(2), point (g): are owned, chartered or operated by natural or legal persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 269/2014, are otherwise used in the name of, on behalf of, in relation with or for the benefit of such persons. 24.4.2026 619. VERSA 9379301 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). Article 3s(2), point (c): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies for the exploitation, development or expansion of the energy sector in Russia, including energy infrastructure. 24.4.2026 620. TIGER 6 9389083 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 621. LUNA LUSTER 9292187 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 622. AETHER 9328170 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 623. ANIKA 9417464 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 624. DOVE 9297541 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 625. GLOBAL STAR 9198082 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 626. HORAE 9413004 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). Article 3s(2), point (c): are operated in such a way as to contribute or support actions or policies for the exploitation, development or expansion of the energy sector in Russia, including energy infrastructure. 24.4.2026 627. IVAN AIVAZOVSKY 9876359 Article 3s(2), point (g): are owned, chartered or operated by natural or legal persons, entities or bodies listed in Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 269/2014, are otherwise used in the name of, on behalf of, in relation with or for the benefit of such persons. 24.4.2026 628. JUPITER I 9599341 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 629. KRITI VIGOR 9290397 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 630. KURDOS III 9380570 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 631. LING HONG 9408542 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 632. SAKHALIN 9249128 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 633. SANRAYZ 8862935 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 634. CAPELLA MB (formerly SEVEN PEARLS) 9343986 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 635. TOA PAYOH 9298492 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 636. VALENTIN PIKUL 9885879 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 637. VENUS III 9599353 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 638. MARVEN 9305556 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 639. TRUVOR 9676230 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 640. OCEAN II 9233777 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 641. SILVAR 9291262 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 642. KAMELOT 9265873 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 643. KARAKUZ 9621558 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 644. ELBUS 9290385 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 645. ATMOS 9337418 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 646. SEADAR 9333785 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 647. GRACEP 9252967 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 648 SIREN II 9337195 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 649. SIG 9735335 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 650. STALINGRAD 9690212 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026 651. ASTORIA 9166314 Article 3s(2), point (b): transport crude oil or petroleum products as listed in Annex XXV or mineral products that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia and practice irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33). 24.4.2026’

ANNEX XIV

In Annex XLIV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, the following entry is added:

 Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force ‘8. Yelo Bank (Azerbaijan) 14.5.2026’

ANNEX XV

Annex XLV to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) the title of part Part A is replaced by the following: ‘Part A – list of credit and financial institutions and entities providing crypto-assets services or payment services established outside of the Union that are significantly frustrating the purpose of the prohibitions in this Regulation and Regulation (EU) No 269/2014’;
(2) the following entries are deleted from part A: Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force ‘Heihe Rural Commercial Bank Co. Ltd. 9 August 2025 Heilongjiang Suifenhe Rural Commercial Bank Co. Ltd. 9 August 2025 CJSC Dushanbe City Bank 12 November 2025 CJSC Spitamen Bank (Tajikistan) 12 November 2025 OJSC Commerce Bank of Tajikistan 12 November 2025’
(3) the following entry is added to Part A: Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force ‘Joint Development Bank (Laos) 14.5.2026’
(4) Part B is replaced by the following: ‘Part B – list of credit and financial institutions and entities providing crypto-assets services or payment services established outside of the Union that support Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force Keremet bank (Kyrgyzstan) 14.5.2026 OJSC Capital Bank of Central Asia (Kyrgyzstan) 14.5.2026’
(5) the following part is added: ‘Part D – list of legal persons, entities or bodies established outside of the Union that enable the performance of international transactions, including through payments from accounts in other countries than Russia, through netting, through set-off, through reconciliation or through settlement, that frustrate the purpose of the prohibitions in those Regulations Name of the legal person, entity or body Entry into force Arneis 14.5.2026 Asia Import Group 14.5.2026 GPAgent 14.5.2026 Platejka 14.5.2026’

ANNEX XVI

Annex XLVII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is amended as follows:

(1) the following entries are added to Part A – List of ports and locks in Russia: ‘Part A – List of ports and locks in Russia Name Grounds for inclusion Date of application 6. Murmansk Article 5ae(1), point (c): used for the maritime transport of crude oil or petroleum products, as listed in Annex XXV, or of mineral products, that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia by vessels practicing irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33) 24.4.2026 7. Tuapse Article 5ae(1), point (c): used for the maritime transport of crude oil or petroleum products, as listed in Annex XXV, or of mineral products, that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia by vessels practicing irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33) 24.4.2026’
(2) Part C – List of ports and locks in third countries other than Russia, is replaced by the following: ‘Part C – List of ports and locks in third countries other than Russia Name Grounds for inclusion Date of application 1. Karimun Oil Terminal, Indonesia Article 5ae(1), point (c): used for the maritime transport of crude oil or petroleum products, as listed in Annex XXV, or of mineral products, that originate in Russia or are exported from Russia by vessels practicing irregular and high-risk shipping practices as set out in the International Maritime Organisation General Assembly resolution A.1192(33) 24.4.2026’

ANNEX XVII

In Annex LI to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014, the following partner country is added:

‘LIECHTENSTEIN’.

ANNEX XVIII

Annex LIII to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 is replaced by the following:

‘ANNEX LIII

List of crypto-assets and central bank digital currencies as referred to in Article 5ba

Crypto-assets or central bank digital currencies Entry into force A7A5 25 November 2025 RUBx 24 May 2026 Digital rouble 24 May 2026’

ANNEX XIX

The following Annex is added to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014:

‘ANNEX LIV

Legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 5ai that benefitted, including by operating in the same market sector, from a decision pursuant to the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation No 302 of 25 April 2023 as subsequently amended, pursuant to Federal Law No 470-FZ of 4 August 2023 as subsequently amended, or pursuant to related or equivalent Russian legislation’.

ANNEX XX

The following Annex is added to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014:

‘ANNEX LV

Legal persons, entities or bodies referred to Article 5aj

Part A: legal persons, entities or bodies that seek, or are involved with, the enforcement outside the Union of claims under paragraph 1 of Article 11a, and persons, entities or bodies that own or control those entities or bodies, as referred to in Article 5aj(1).

Part B: legal persons, entities or bodies that seek, or are involved with, the enforcement, outside the Union, of claims under paragraph 1 of Article 11b, and persons, entities or bodies that own or control those entities or bodies, as referred to in Article 5aj(2).’.

ANNEX XXI

The following Annex is added to Regulation (EU) No 833/2014:

‘ANNEX LVI

Legal persons, entities or bodies referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 5sa using intellectual property rights or trade secrets of Union right holders without their consent’.

 

ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2026/506/oj

ISSN 1977-0677 (electronic edition)